floppy
Floppy hat.
A dog with big floppy ears.

tuck
Should I tuck my shirt into my trousers?

trim
She was wearing a black suit trimmed with white.
A red blazer with gold trim.

lunar
Why build five lunar observatories in the same location?

blob
a blob of glue fell on the ground.

hearth
a bright fire was burning in the hearth.

modesty 
Modesty is expected in the dorms as well as in the classrooms.

kindling
She slid the paper in among the kindlings.

brook
She won't brook any criticism of her work.

errand
I'll meet you at six. I've got some errands to do/run first.
He would clean, do errands, and babysit for their 7-year-old daughter.

strain
The hurricane put such a strain on the bridge that it collapsed.
Relations between the two countries have become strained (= difficult) recently.
She had a strained expression on her face.
Jean felt uncomfortable but managed to force a strained smile.
She's a lot better than she was, but she's still not ready to face the stresses and strains of a job.
I strained a muscle in my back playing squash.
Don't watch TV in the dark - you'll strain your eyes!
figurative I really had to strain (= try very hard) to reach those top notes.
figurative I was straining (my ears) (= listening hard) to hear what they were saying.

quarrel
She made the mistake of picking a quarrel with John.
Stop quarrelling with your sister. 
~squabble 

blizzard
Blizzard conditions made the main roads almost impassable.
~snowstorm

pluck
She plucked a blade of grass.
~pick off

sprain
I sprained my wrist playing tennis.
He stumbled and sprained a knee.
~wrench 

chafe
The bracelet was so tight that it started to chafe my wrist.

darkly
Don't come any closer!" she hissed darkly.
She hinted darkly that something had happened to him.

omnivorous 
Pigs are omnivorous animals.

drool
The baby begins to drool and then coughs.
~salivate, slaver

slavered
The dog slavered with excitement when told it was time for a walk.

testament
This article will give clear instructions for making a last will and testament.

unequivocal
an unequivocal answer.
The church has been unequivocal in its condemnation of the violence.
The prime minister, he said, had the party's unequivocal support.
~unambiguous

assert
Throughout the Cold War, the Allies asserted their right to move freely between the two Berlins.

novelty
The university’s targets ranged from hawkers of market-stall novelties to multinationals.

infringe
They infringed building regulations.
~contravene, transfress

besmirch
It is such a shame that, often, the achievements on the pitch are diminished and besmirched by what happens off the pitch.
The ground was besmirched with blood.
~soil, disgrace, smear

dubious
These claims are dubious and not scientifically proven.
~doubtful 

terse
Are you feeling any better?" "No!" was the terse reply.

arrangement
They make all the arrangements for the party.
I'm sure we can come to an arrangement (= reach an agreement).

embroil
She became embroiled in a dispute between two women she hardly knew.
~involve in an argument 

dissuade
His friends tried to dissuade him from flying.
~prevent

implore
He implored her to change her mind.
~beseech, beg

earnestly 
He hopes school officials will continue to work earnestly to ensure the rights of their minority students
~seriously, solemnly 

plummet
a climber was killed when he plummeted 300 feet down an icy gully.
As the age distribution changes, the number of younger adults per older adult in the population will continue to plummet.

enigmatic
He left an enigmatic message on my answering machine.
~mysterious, puzzling

promise 
His English teacher had written on his report that he showed great promise.

lopsided
a lopsided grin.
On seeing the infant’s lopsided head for the first time in 1879, his maternal grandmother exclaimed.

denigrate
Einstein was not well known in Britain, where scientists took pleasure in ignoring or denigrating their German counterparts.
Doom and gloom merchants who denigrate their own country.
~disparage 

dope
His blog is a must-read for anyone who wants the inside dope on the tech world.
They hoped to dig up some dope on her that might be damaging, but they never did.
~not generally known information 

hound
She was hounded by the Italian press.
The reporters wouldn't stop hounding her.

aphorism
Oscar Wilde was famous for such aphorisms as "Experience is the name everyone gives to their mistakes.

outburst
Einstein’s personality, for no clear reason, triggers outbursts of a kind of mass hysteria,” wrote a bewildered German consul in New York in 1931

frazzled
It was a stressful day at work, and by 5.00, I was completely frazzled.
A long line of screaming children and frazzled parents.
I'd only been in the sun a couple of hours, and my back was frazzled.

scruffy
a teenager in scruffy jeans and a baggy T-shirt.
They live in a scruffy part of town.
A small, scruffy-looking man.
~frowsy

befriend
While at college, he befriended a young student from China.
He makes a point of befriending newcomers to Parliament.
~make friends with

cremate
She had refused to have her husband cremated.
Einstein wanted his body to be cremated and the ashes scattered over the Delaware river on the Atlantic coast.

caterpillar
The frazzled hair, the frowsy jumper, the caterpillar moustache, the hangdog jowls and those sad, galactic eyes. “He was slovenly.

recourse
Surgery may be the only recourse.
There seemed to be little legal recourse: a celebrity’s publicity rights did not extend in law to heirs.

lodging 
She was able to claim expenses for airfare, food, and lodging for three nights.
He was looking for lodgings and a job.
~temporary accommodation 

enviable
The firm is in the enviable position of having a full order book.

libel
She threatened to sue the magazine for libel.
~slander

boulder
But it was equally clear he was pushing a big boulder up a steep hill.

underdog
We go into this game as the underdogs.

despondent 
She started to feel despondent about ever finding a job.
~ low-spirited, disheartened, discouraged

belligerent 
Watch out! Lee's in a belligerent mood.
The belligerent countries are having difficulties funding the war.
~hostile, aggressive 

heft
I watched him heft the heavy sack onto his shoulder
Does Brady have the intellectual heft to run the city?
~lift, carry

preposterous
It was a preposterous idea, and no one took it seriously.
A preposterous suggestion.
~absurd, foolish

gimmick
They give away free gifts with children's meals as a sales/marketing gimmick.