palliative
Older people facing a terminal illness may want to choose palliative care only.

unnerve
I think it unnerved me to be interviewed by so many people.
~demoralize

infuse
The pulling down of the Berlin Wall infused the world with optimism.
~pervade

awfully 
I'm awfully sorry to bother you so late.
~very

ebb
The poor man could feel his strength ebbing (away).

awe
"How does she manage to run so fast at her age?" he asked in awed tones.

enormity 
I don't think you realize the enormity of the problem.
The enormities of war.
a thorough search disclosed the full enormity of the crime.

chronicle
a chronicle of the French Revolution.

poignantly
He sang poignantly of wanting to know true love.
The war correspondent is known for poignantly chronicling the effect of war on ordinary people.

ligature
Ligatures are used in surgery to stop the flow of a bleeding artery.

be at loggerhead with
The party is at loggerheads with the president over public spending.

disproportionate 
There are a disproportionate number of girls in the class.

staggeringly
a staggeringly beautiful coastline.

altruistic
It was an entirely altruistic act.

compassionate
I allowed him to go home on compassionate grounds.

flinch
He didn't even flinch when the nurse cleaned the wound.
His doctors did not have the option of flinching from the dreadful details.

grit
It takes true (= real) grit to stand up to a bully.
He gritted his teeth in silent fury.

stark
He came running back in stark/sheer terror.

florid
a florid architectural style.

kneejerk
a knee-jerk reaction.

fraught with
The negotiations have been fraught with difficulties/problems right from the start.
From beginning to end, the airlift was fraught with risks.

frenzy 
In a frenzy of rage she hit him.
the media frenzy over the celebrity wedding.

whipped up
His speech whipped up the crowd.

offset
The extra cost of travelling to work is offset by the lower price of houses here.
UK He keeps his petrol receipts because petrol is one of the expenses that he can offset against tax (= can show to the government as being a business cost, and so not pay tax).