skirmish 
There was a short skirmish between the two of them over who would pay for the meal.
Rebels skirmished with nearby American forces.

stray
They got lost when they strayed too far from the path.
The ship strayed off course during the storm.

tinker
I'll just have a tinker with the TV and see if I can get it to work.

unobtrusive 
The form of the device is made to be as compact and unobtrusive as possible.

ghost
I couldn't understand why I'd been ghosted.

prowl
There have been reports of a masked man prowling in the neighbourhood.

scorpion
At night, adult scorpions prowl the desert for (= trying to catch) insects.

languid
a languid voice.

procession
The dancers leading the procession were in colourful and elaborate costumes.
My day has just been a never-ending procession of visitors.

plain
He must make his procession across the plains.

omen
The team's final victory of the season is a good omen for the playoffs, which start next week.
Many people believe that a broken mirror is an omen of bad luck.

indignant
She wrote an indignant letter to the paper complaining about the council's action.

seethe 
Vynarys seethed with impatience.

fickle
She's so fickle - she's never been interested in the same man for more than a week!
He criticized the fickle behavior of football fans who cheer you one week and boo you the next.

berate
She berated herself for being fickle.

sprout
It takes about three days for the seeds to sprout.
Your hair is sticking up - it looks like you're sprouting horns!

bristle
She bristled at the suggestion that she had in any way neglected the child.

nibble
He nibbled a biscuit.

accredited
Accredited war correspondents.
The number of accredited online programs has grown.

map
The first human genome was mapped in 2003.

pond
The children enjoy floating their boats on the pond in the park.

mating
Whether you were looking at algae blooming in a pond or peacock mating rituals.

centennial
Next year is the centennial of her death.

crow
Ruby crowed with delight.
Huxley crowed that “this is one of the first public occasions on which it has been frankly faced that all aspects of reality are subject to evolution”.

dissent
When the time came to approve the proposal, there were one or two voices of dissent.
Rooney was booked for dissent after the referee failed to award United a penalty.

lament
The poem opens by lamenting (over) the death of a young man.
My grandmother, as usual, lamented the decline in moral standards in today's society.
The late lamented (= dead and remembered with love) Frank Giotto used to live here.

sideline
Jim works in a bank, but teaches French in the evenings as a sideline.
Johnson has been sidelined through injury.

drastic
Drastic measures.
In the desert there’s a drastic change in temperature from day to night.

ostracize
His colleagues ostracized him after he criticized the company in public.

distraught
The missing child's distraught parents made an emotional appeal for information on TV.

quibble
There's no point quibbling about/over a couple of dollars.

orthodoxy
Other assaults on evolutionary orthodoxy followed.

beside the point
The exact cost is beside the point – what’s important is that we get the job done.

peeled away/off
One motorbike peeled away from the formation and circled round behind the rest.
Just as feared, the field split. In the 70s, molecular biologists in many universities peeled off from biology departments to form their own separate departments and journals. 

subtext
(subtext: don’t worry about it, we can continue as before).

mutatis mutandis
This complex pattern has been repeated, mutatis mutandis, all over the country.

fanfare
The new laws were passed after much fanfare.
Riordan and his staff receive little fanfare for their work.

akin to
Something akin to gratitude overwhelmed her.
My parents were akin, probably half cousins.

renege
If you renege on the deal now, I'll fight you in the courts.
The modern synthesis occupies a position akin to a president reneging on a campaign promise.

grime
White shoes soon build up with dirt and grime when worn.
The walls were covered with grime.

pessimistic
Truss-Sunak contest leaves Brussels pessimistic about relations with UK.

rapprochement
There are signs of (a) rapprochement between the warring factions.
Officials in Brussels have little hope of a rapprochement with the new government.

push ahead
They have decided to push ahead with the legal action.

linchpin
The city’s River Park is the linchpin of its efforts to sell itself as a vacation destination.

stall
Japan's economic growth has stalled, with industrial production contracting in June for the fourth straight month.

dial down
We must find a way to dial back the violence in our cities.

ramp up
they ramped up production to meet booming demand.