recitent
He is very reticent about his past.
Most of the students were reticent about answering questions.

hold out
The troops held out against constant attacks.
Few people hold out any hope of finding more survivors.

abet
He was not guilty of murder but was guilty of aiding and abetting others.

dote on
They dote on their grandchild.

Flicker
A smile flickered across her face.
He'd been in a coma for weeks when all of a sudden, he flickered an eyelid.

hold forth
She held forth all afternoon about/on government incompetence.

antipathetic
antipathetic attitudes towards smokers.
Even those normally antipathetic to anything new approve of the design of the new railway station.
it is human nature to be antipathetic to change.
~aversion 

twinkle
The lights of the town twinkled in the distance.
The stars twinkled in the clear sky.
His brown eyes twinkled behind the gold-rimmed glasses.
~flicker, sparkle, glitter

leniency
The defending lawyer asked for leniency on the grounds of her client's youth.
But for the leniency of the referee, the player would have been sent off.

harbour
She started to harbour doubts about the wisdom of their journey.

lecherous
He gave her a lecherous look.
He's a lecher.
I think he has a lech for me.

next/near to impossible
The promises of the candidate during her presidential campaign are near to impossible to achieve, but they have garnered a huge following of dedicated supporters. The boss keeps setting us near-to-impossible deadlines for these new projects.

by/in leaps and bounds
Her Spanish has come on (= improved) in leaps and bounds this year.

courier
I want to have this package delivered by motorcycle courier.

haphazard
He tackled the problem in a typically haphazard manner.
The new plan was introduced haphazardly.
Shelters are scattered haphazardly about the desert.

overhead
Many businesses are moving out of New York because the overheads are so high.

overwhelming
She said how much she appreciated the overwhelming generosity of the public in responding to the appeal.
An overwhelming majority has voted in favour of the proposal.

hunch
I had a hunch that you'd be here.
We hunched round the fire to keep warm.

hawk
It's putting me off, having you watching me like a hawk all the time.

jaw
He was jawing away to his girlfriend for hours on the phone.

jab
The doctor jabbed the needle into the dog's leg.
Watch out! You nearly jabbed me in the eye with your umbrella!

jabber
He jabbered on about football.
~babble

contemptuous
He was very contemptuous of "popular" writers, whom he described as having no talent.
~scornful

do time
He did time in a California prison.

penitentiaries
But how did this affect the lives of individual inmates inside prisons and penitentiaries?

shady
We sat on the shady grass for our picnic.
He was involved in shady deals in the past.

brass
Brass door handles.

ask for​/​beg​/​crave etc someone’s indulgence 
I beg your indulgence Anthony.

virtuous
She considered herself very virtuous because she neither drank nor smoked.