off
He lives just off the main road.

infuriates
His sexist attitude infuriates me.

ditch
The thief ditched Maxine’s purse in a trash can but kept the money.
It’s time to ditch this old, torn sweater.

incursions
Incursions into enemy territory.

at close quarters/at close range
When you see famous people at close quarters, they always appear much smaller than you imagined them.
He was shot at close range.

elephantine
She's so tiny that she makes me feel elephantine.

nautical
Nautical equipment.

contiguous
The two states are contiguous with/to each other, but the laws are quite different.

disinformation
They claimed there was an official disinformation campaign by the government.

sever
The knife severed an artery and he bled to death.
Her foot was severed from her leg in a car accident.

countermeasures
The Chancellor's countermeasures against inflation have been completely ineffective.

domesticity
She married young and settled happily into domesticity.

tyranny
Women, the play seems to suggest, must resist the tyranny of domesticity.

imposing
an imposing mansion.
He was an imposing figure on stage.

totalitarian
a totalitarian regime.

be consumed by/with something
I feel this way because calories once consumed me.
He was consumed with jealousy.
As a teenager, I was consumed by passion for the boy next door.

tangerine
orange or tangerine.

confectionery
Their products include candy and other confectioneries. 

loo
I'll just go to the loo.
loo roll.

flap
A small bird flapped its wings furiously and flew off.
Flags flapped in the breeze above their tents.
She's in a flap because her parents are coming to visit.

meticulously
The entire project was meticulously planned.
Procedures had to be followed meticulously.

remark on something
All his friends remarked on the change in him since his marriage.

quarter
Many are quarter in tents.
This is the bustling commercial quarter of the city.

bollock
He got bollocked by the boss.
The teacher used to bollock me for talking in class.

totted up
She quickly totted up our bill and added an amount for the waiter.

demonstrably
The Arctic regions of North America, Europe, and much of Russia are all becoming demonstrably warmer.
Despite evidence that this policy has little effect on obesity but is demonstrably dangerous for people with eating disorders.

get hold of 
Where can I get hold of some stamps?
How can I get ahold of Chris?
I haven’t talked to her in years, so I wouldn’t know how to get hold of her anymore.

ungainly 
an ungainly walk.

slick
Manilow gave the slick, polished performance that we've come to expect.
A slick pass from Eaves to Brinkworth set up the goal.
The floor of the room was slick with his blood.

whimper
She gave a little whimper as the vet inspected her paw.

hideous
They've just built some hideous new apartment blocks on the seafront.
She wears the most hideous colour combinations you could ever imagine.

ripping
I've had a ripping time here.

crackling
We could hear the crackling of a fire.

ramp
I pushed the wheelchair up the ramp and into the supermarket.

utter
She sat through the whole meeting without uttering a word.
The meeting was a complete and utter waste of time.

wind down
The government intends to wind the scheme down in the spring.
Unfortunately, the party was just winding down as we got there.