faraway
There was a faraway look in his eyes.

illegible
His handwriting is totally illegible.

scribble
He took the clipboard and scribbled something illegible.

aloft
We held our glasses aloft.

mighty
It's a mighty dangerous weapon.

beam
She beamed with delight/pleasure at his remarks.
The child beamed at his teacher as he received the award.

catty
She's always making catty remarks about her sister.

break away
Anna attempted to break away, but he held her tight.

grave 
a grave situation.
He remains grave for a moment and yhen grins.

grimace
Helen made a grimace of disgust when she saw the raw meat.

pick on
Why are you picking on me?
He gets picked on by the other boys because he's so small.

jiffy
We'll be back in a jiffy.

muffled
I could hear muffled voices next door but couldn't make out any words.
The muffled roar of traffic could be heard in the distance.

enunciate
She enunciated each word slowly.

spitefull 
The teachers made spiteful little jokes about me.
~malicious 

hellcat
Her hellcat of a sister

mean
He's too mean to buy her a ring.

straighten up
They straightened up the house after the party.

jerk
The alarm went off and he woke up with a jerk.
What's wrong? she asked, jerking her head up.
The car made a strange noise and then jerked to a halt.

cock
He cocked his head on one side with a slight frown.
The dog cocked its leg (= urinated) against a tree.
To cock an ear/eyebrow.

draw in
The days are drawing in and the weather is definitely getting colder.

peter put
The fighting which started in the night had petered out by morning.
The track petered out after a mile or so.

Take no chance
She was taking no chances by refusing to go skydiving. 
They did not take any chances and called the fire department when they smelled gas

touch up
She touched up her lipstick and brushed her hair.
We thought the photo had probably been touched up, because he looked so much younger in it.

vulgar
It was an extremely vulgar joke.
The movie is rated PG and has a few mildly vulgar jokes.
~coarseness, rudeness 

make bone about something 
make no bones about something 
He made no bones about his dissatisfaction with the service.

superintendent 
We asked the superintendent (also US informal super) to fix the broken window in our apartment.

overseer
As the nation's regulatory overseer, he could advance, delay, or cancel major initiatives.

suck up
Why do you think he offered to take all that work home?" "Oh, he's just sucking up to the boss.

hand-me-down
They received hand-me-downs and toys from relatives and friends.

semblance 
By early 1994, local chiefs were able to stop the violence and bring some semblance of peace to the area.
She’s raising two kids, holding down a full-time job, and trying to maintain some semblance of a personal life.

keep up appearances
They were very unhappily married but kept up appearances for the sake of their children.