snotty
You could have told me I had a snotty nose!
I don't want to use your snotty handkerchief!

forlornly
She sat forlornly looking out to sea.
He shook his head forlornly.

feat
Getting the house painted was quite a feat.
The Eiffel Tower is a remarkable feat of engineering.

fool with something
You're fooling with something that nobody ought to fool with.
I just don’t like to fool with these computers.
I like fooling with cameras.

chaperone
She asked me to go to the cinema with her and Andrew, I think as a sort of chaperone.

dirty someone's name
Yo I wasn't wit your mom last night homie. Why she trying to get my name dirty?

keep on ice
The whole deal was put on ice when the stock market fell sharply.

brat
She's behaving like a spoilt brat

content
He seems fairly content with (his) life.
I believe I'm quite content as a spectator.

attendant
The Prince was followed by his attendants.

attend
The queen was attended by her ladies-in-waiting.
Over two hundred people attended the funeral.

womb
We have Royal womb you and I.
Researchers are looking at how a mother's health can affect the baby in the womb.

with stiff lip
He was taught to keep a stiff upper lip, whatever happens.
We must learn to face it with stiff lip.

style oneself
Marco styles himself as a businessman.
The event was styled an art opening but I saw no art.

latitude
Courts can show a considerable degree of latitude when it comes to applying the law.

beggar
If those shipping lanes should fall, it will beggar our ports.

hand-wringing
This is no time for more hand-wringing about bias in the media.

first light
You are to set off at first light.
~dawn,

overshadow
Karen has always felt overshadowed by her famous elder sister.
My happiness was overshadowed by the bad news.

humour
You seem in a very good/bad humour today.
~mood

tepid
Bath water is just tepid.
There is only tepid support in Congress for the proposal.

hatch
I wouldn’t be surprised if I hatched an actual dragon.
The birds hatched out the next afternoon.
an escape hatch.

stillbirth
I had two stillbirth.

mongrel
When I took commander of the watch, you were stray mongrels.

sated
Sated with drink.
Now you're sated an honed for the hunt.

hone
a honed knife is easier and safer to handle than a dulled, nicked blade.
Her debating skills were honed in the students' union.

squalor
The conditions of dwellings then were grim, a lot to do with the lack of sanitation, poverty and squalor.
These people are forced to live in squalor.

thrive
Crime of any breed is allowed to thrive.

ilk
The worst of her criticism was reserved for journalists, photographers, and others of their ilk.
They do not give children chicken nuggets, potato smiley faces, or processed foods of that ilk.

roundup
He was caught in the police roundup after the event and spent eight years in prison.
a cattle roundup.
It was an unprecedented roundup of criminlas of every ilk.

mete out
In the past, schoolteachers regularly meted out physical punishment to their pupils.
He meting out the summary judgment himself.

haul
He hauled his bike out of the shed.

dismemberment
Graphic pictures of torture and dismemberment.
They needed a two horse cart to haul away the resulting dismemberment.

unchecked
Prices rose unchecked, hitting the poor worst of all.
The war raged on, unchecked by the UN's efforts to stop it.
The growing and unchecked pervasiveness of the state has led to a lack of legitimation.

impunity
She thought that her money and power gave her the right to ignore the law with impunity.

pervasiveness 
The pervasiveness of violence on television.

wield
a masked raider wielding a handgun.