solace
When his wife left him, he found solace in the bottle (= drank alcohol).

marshal
It is unlikely that the rebels will be able to marshal as much firepower as the government troops.
They had marshalled an armada of 1,000 boats to help clear up the oil.

shun
After the trial, he was shunned by friends and family alike.
She has shunned publicity since she retired from acting.

obsess
Why are people so obsessed with money?
I'm so obsessed with the result of the meeting. 

ubiquitous
These challenges are only set to increase as high-speed connectivity becomes more ubiquitous.

mounting
mounting anxiety/excitement.

make/do the rounds
Rumours about his resignation were making the rounds.
I've made/done the rounds of all the agents, but nobody has any tickets left.

tuition
It is noteworthy that one-third of students do not pay any tuition fees.

heterogeneous 
Switzerland is a heterogeneous confederation of 26 self-governing cantons.

crooked
Arya's stitches were crooked again.
His front teeth are crooked.
~not straight 

delicate 
Delicate plants need to be kept in a greenhouse during the winter.

coo
How wonderful to see you again, darling," she cooed.

salvage
After the storm, we were able to salvage some of our belongings, but the house was destroyed.

startle
He was startled when dozens of strangers showed up at his office.

chuckle
Stop that giggling/chuckling in the back row!

abash
I hope that they will not feel in any way abashed.
~embarrassed, ashamed

gallant 
That wasn't very gallant of you, Paul, pushing a young lady out of the way like that!

compliment
I take it as a compliment (= I am pleased) when people say I look like my mother.
He complained that his husband never paid him any compliments anymore.

hearty
a hearty laugh.
We ate a hearty breakfast before we set off.
She's got a hearty appetite (= she eats a lot).

stew
Corn starch is used as a thickener in stews.

apron
She wore a starched white apron over her black dress.

rustling
I could hear (a) rustling in the bushes.
A small animal was making rustling noises among the leaves.

won't do
He’s spending every afternoon in the park with his friends instead of going to school, and that just won’t do!

smirk
I don't like the way he winks and smirks at me whenever he sees me.

lustreless
her uncombed, lustreless/dull black hair.

at odds
His behavior is clearly at odds with what the college expects from its students.
~In conflict

subside
The police are hoping that the violence will soon subside.
I'll wait a few minutes until the storm subsides.

assortment 
the room was filled with an assortment of clothes.