spendthrift
Putt was a spendthrift and a heavy gambler.

counterproductive
Child experts fear the Executive's plans may prove counterproductive.

evict
a single mother and her children have been evicted from their home.

-stained
Tear-stained faces.
a blood-stained blanket.

baptism 
The baptismal ceremony.
a baptismal certificate.

siree
He's not the type to treat young employees like mud, no siree.

auxiliary
Auxiliary airport staff.
a nursing auxiliary.

hark
He's always harking back to his childhood and saying how things were better then.
Hark, I hear a music.

mirth
Mirthful laughter.
The ending of the film is melancholy rather than mirthful.
we looked with amusement at our horoscopes.
~amusement, merry

interjection
Her controversial speech was punctuated with noisy interjections from the audience.

auditory
It's an artificial device that stimulates the auditory areas of the brain.

aviary
Imagine, for example, an investigation into the foraging behaviour of a bird in an aviary.

blast
The room is suddenly blasted by the climax of the opera.
The administration was blasted for failing to create jobs.

at someone's expense.
My friends all had a good laugh at my expense.

fuss
I don't see what the fuss is about - he seems like a fairly ordinary-looking guy to me.
She made such a fuss when Richard spilled a drop of wine on her blouse!
It's all a fuss about nothing.
She's always fussing about her food.

grotesquely
a grotesquely fat man.
My views were grotesquely misrepresented.

make fuss over
Everyone fussed over the baby.
He spent hours fussing over the details of the speech.

plop
The stone fell into the water with a soft plop.
The stone plopped into the pond.

pond
a garden pond.
the lava can't flow away and gets ponded up in the crater.

wheeze 
I know when I've been smoking too much because I start to wheeze when I run for a train.

figure
The issue of nuclear policy figured prominently in the talks.
I'm still figuring my taxes.
Can you read this figure? Is it a three or an eight?

extend
He extended his hand as a greeting.

inelegent
For example, on page 219 we find a fairly inelegant way of compressing 33 bits into two integers.

horseplay
No running or horseplay in the halls.

antic
But the rock star, whose stage antics used to include smashing guitars, is older and wiser now.
The crowds were once again entertained by the number-one tennis player's antics on and off the court.

peek
Close your eyes. Don't peek. I've got a surprise for you.
I peeked out the window to see who was there.

get in with someone 
He's trying to get in with the teachers.

cackle
A group of women were cackling in a corner.

wail
Business people wailed that their trade would be ruined.

forthcoming 
I had difficulty getting any details. He wasn't very forthcoming.
He has not been forthcoming about the details of his contract.

aloof
Everyone joins in, only brick remains aloof.

ablaze
The house was ablaze, and the flames and smoke could be seen for miles around.

strike up
We were on the dance floor, waiting for the band to strike up.