veracity
Doubts were cast on the veracity of her alibi.

mendacity 
Politicians are often accused of mendacity.

subsidize 
£50 would help to subsidize the training of an unemployed teenager.
The refugees live in subsidized housing provided by the authorities.

pull oneself together 
You've got to pull yourself together and fin
d a job

hallmark
Simplicity is a hallmark of this design.
This explosion bears/has all the hallmarks of (= is likely to have been) a terrorist attack.

unerring 
He has an unerring talent for writing catchy melodies.

privation
Economic privation is pushing the poor towards crime.
Several villages suffered serious privations during their long isolation during the war.

unswerving 
Unswerving loyalty.

overdraft/overdrawn
When I left Cambridge I had a £900 overdraft.

safe haven
As long as the UN soldiers were present, the city was regarded as a safe haven for the refugees.

dividend
Dividends will be sent to shareholders.

dilute
Dilute the juice (with water) before you drink it.
These measures are designed to dilute public fears about the product's safety.

talk around something 
He just kept talking around the subject and didn't tackle the main issues.

pass the buck
Elected political leaders cannot pass the buck for crisis decisions to any alternative source of authority.

inadmissible 
Her confession was ruled inadmissible as evidence because it was given under pressure from the police.
an inadmissible interference in the affairs of the Church.

disavow 
They were quick to disavow the rumour.
She tried to disavow her past.

absolve
The report absolved her from/of all blame for the accident.
The priest absolved him (of all his sins).

playwright 
Not only were all the writers involved novice playwrights, but the actors, too, were firsttime performers.

leash
Please keep your dog on a leash when on the beach.
His violence was barely leashed.

palpable 
a palpable effect.
Her joy was palpable.

knock around
I spent the weekend just knocking around the house.
I used to knock around with him at school.
He spent years knocking around the Far East before the First World War.

in ones time
I've seen a lot of crazy things in my time.

buck
Can I borrow a couple of bucks?
He charged me 20 bucks for a new hubcap.

bum
He gave us bum directions, but we eventually found the place.
Could I bum a cigarette off you?
Could I bum a couple of bucks from somebody?

bum somewhere
I wish you'd stop bumming around and start looking for a job.
After college she spent a year bumming around Europe.

flophouse
That area of Manhattan used to be full of flophouses.

criminalize 
The law has criminalized prostitution but not got rid of it.

queer
We were criminalized just for being queer.