scruple
Robin Hood had no scruples about robbing the rich to give to the poor.
He has scruples about going out with his students.

bustle
Thora bustled around the house, getting everything ready.

breather
Let's take a breather.

bellow
"Keep quiet!" the teacher bellowed across the room.
We could hear the sergeant bellowing orders to his troops.
The bull bellowed in pain.

groan
Marty groaned and pulled the blanket over his head.

dilatory
Dilatory behaviour/tactics.
British institutions have been dilatory in cutting credit card charges.

drunkard
Her husband turned out to be a drunkard.

straighten someone out
I thought that once he got a girlfriend that would straighten him out.

leal
His leal duty to the King.

investiture
The investiture of the new president will take place this evening.
So let us plan ser criston's investiture then.

spurn
She spurned my offers of help.
Ellis plays the part of the young lover spurned by his mistress.
He not choose me, he spurned deamon.

unfettered 
The law gives the governor unfettered discretion to make these appointments.
I always welcome the unfettered thoughts of my council.

discretion
Students can be expelled at the discretion of the principal (= if the principal decides it).
I leave the decision to your discretion (= for you to decide).

incursion
Incursions into enemy territory.
And a blind Incursion in the step stones is the only way to demonstrate that we are not?

charitable
Some critics said the show was good in parts - those less charitable said the whole thing was a disaster.

overreach
Some U. N. officials charged that the investigators had overreached their authority.
It was a warning to the Florida court not to overreach its powers.

propagate
Plants need certain conditions to propagate.
The female crab needs to be saved to propagate the species.

missive
She sent a ten-page missive to the committee, detailing her objections.
The princess left a missive.

sedition
He himself was tried for sedition and sentenced to ten years in jail.
This is nothing less than sedition.

detachment 
a military detachment.
A detachment of Italian soldiers was sent to the area.
Assemble a detachment otto.

relinquish
He has relinquished his claim to the throne.
She relinquished control of the family investments to her son.
She relinquished her hold/grip on the steering wheel.
You are to relinquish the dragon's egg.

diaband
She formed a political group which disbanded a year later.
The managers planned to disband the team.
Disband your army.

skulk
I thought I saw someone skulking in the bushes - maybe we should call the police.
~lurk

soil
Soiled diapers.
With every breath you soil your name, your house and your brother's reign.

clutch
He stood clutching a microphone.
~grasp, grip, clasp, cling to

sparkler
a girl bursts into the room with sparklers clutche in both of her fist.

nostril
The horses came to a halt, steam streaming from their nostrils.

balled up
I'm balled up.

whelp
Hunts go out during the very season when the vixen are whelped.

bosom
The dress showed the top of my bosoms.

bedstead
Approximately 9,000 iron bedsteads are available for disposal.

solemnly
I solemnly promise to tell the truth.
Politicians across America solemnly announced that the time for national unity had arrived.