with flying colours 
Sylvia had passed her exams with flying colours.

worry sick
He worried himself sick before the exam.

heedless
Elaine!’ she shouted, heedless of attracting unwanted attention.

He's always butting in—not letting her finish her story and giving her advice she never asked for.
~interject

febbly
I smiled feebly.

jangle
She raising her arms and jangling her bracelets.

pulverised 
Seashells were pulverized by the ocean’s waves.

cinder
Get rid of the cinders before you build a new fire.

take over
He took over from the previous headmaster in February.
She took over as manager two weeks ago

put up with
I'm too tired to put up with any nonsense.

heave
As the wind increased, the deck of the ship began to heave beneath his feet.
Big mama's chest heaves.
He cleared a space, heaving boxes out of the way.
She picked up a heavy book and heaved it at him.

zeal
a zeal for money making.

proclaim
All the countries have proclaimed their loyalty to the alliance.
Republican party members were confidently proclaiming victory even as the first few votes came in.

decency
She didn’t even have the decency to apologize.
I hate going to funerals, but you must observe the decencies (= it is something you should do).

noble
His followers believe they are fighting for a noble cause.

embody
She embodied good sportsmanship on the playing field.

sashay
She sashayed down the stairs and into the hall.

plantation 
a tea/cotton/rubber plantation.

hypocrisy 
There's one rule for her and another rule for everyone else and it's sheer hypocrisy.

pucker
He puckered his lips and kissed her.
Her mouth puckered and I thought she was going to cry.

square off
The two giants in the fast-food industry are squaring off this month with the most aggressive advertising campaigns yet.

knock off
He has a stack of computer equipment he's knocked off from various shops.
He was caught selling knocked-off car radios in the pub.
What time do you knock off work?

head
Dinner will cost £20 a/per head (= for each person).
I did a quick head count (= calculated how many people there were).
They own a hundred head of cattle (= 100 animals).

by hook or crook
The government intends, by hook or by crook, to hold on to the land.
~by any means 

vacuum 
The withdrawal of troops from the area has created a security vacuum which will need to be filled.
No artist works in a vacuum - we are all of us influenced by others.

discreet 
The family made discreet enquiries about his background.
They are very good assistants, very discreet - they wouldn't go talking to the press.
~catious, wary, careful, circumspect 

replenish 
He replenished Justin's glass with mineral water.

amiably
Soon everyone was chatting amiably.

chandelier
a gorgeous crystal chandelier hung in the dining room.

husky
His voice became a husky.

lightheaded
She'd had a couple of glasses of champagne and was starting to feel light-headed.

chime
She'd had a couple of glasses of champagne and was starting to feel light-headed.

gouge
He drove into some railings and gouged a hole in the back of his car.
A symbol was gouged into the surface of the wood.

crate
a crate of empty bottles.
Do you crate her at night?

cellar
It is drinkable now but can be cellared for at least five years.
the servants led us down into a cellar.

worn out
Worn-out shoes.
Worn-out places.
~shabby
You look worn out.
~exhausted

go wild
The crowd went wild as soon as the singer stepped onto the stage.

sobering
a sobering thought.
Surviving a car accident is a sobering experience.

screech
Begging like starving dogs with howls and screeches.

jag
a crying/sneezing/coughing jag.
She says she's on a health jag.
The doctor gave her a jag of morphine.

squeel
We could hear the piglets squealing as we entered the farmyard.
The brakes squealed as the van rounded the corner.
The two children squealed with joy.

smoulder
The dispute is still smouldering, five years after the negotiations began.