fatuous
a fatuous idea.
This was a fatuous question in relation to the band and their music.
They chattered fatuously about old movies.

embodiment 
He was the embodiment of the English gentleman.
She was portrayed in the papers as the embodiment of evil.
He is the living embodiment of cheapness.

incongruous 
The new computer looked incongruous in the dark book-filled library.
It seems incongruous to have a woman as the editor of a men's magazine.

apparition
a headless apparition.
Big daddy gasped at this perfectly timed but incongruous apparition.

lavatory
The lavatories will be out of service for the rest of the flight.

deprecatory
a deprecatory smile.
he typically followed up any mention of his accomplishments with some deprecatory comments about his perceived failures

wear through 
I've worn through two pairs of work shoes since I started this job.

pawn
The refugees are pawns in an international political dispute.
She had to put her ring in pawn to pay the bills.
Of all items pawned, jewellery is the most common.
~hock

hop
We hopped over to Bruges for the weekend.
I hopped on the bus at the traffic lights.
I hopped off my bike and chained it to a post.
You can hop off the subway at the next stop, and I'll meet you there.

freight
The ship carries both freight and passengers.
Will the goods be sent by air or sea freight?

wheel
She suddenly wheeled and looked directly at me.
Mike wheeled on Tom and started shouting.

pitch
She pitched the stone into the river.
He pitched to his knees.
The bike hit a rut and I was pitched (forward) onto the road.
The ship pitched up and down/from side to side in the rough seas.

fraternity
The coaching fraternity.
He described sport as a symbol of peace and a means of promoting fraternity between nations.
Sorority and fraternity.

attempted
a man is being questioned in relation to the attempted murder/robbery last night.

mores
Middle-class mores.
The mores and culture of the Japanese.

laurel
She will be laurelled alongside politicians, historians, and other actors.

crack up
I think she's cracking up.
I took one look at her and cracked up.
There's something about that guy's face that just cracks me up.

tongs
He opens the ice bucket and picks the silver tongs.

plod
I'll try not to bore you with lots of plodding details.
The novel is heavy and plodding, with little excitement in it.
The plodding clop of patient draught horses.

clop
The animal clopped on at a steady pace.

shuffle
I love shuffling through the fallen leaves.
He shuffled into the kitchen, leaning on his walking stick.
Don't shuffle your feet like that! Walk normally.

lay down the law
Some parents talk things through with their kids instead of simply laying down the law.

fumble
If Wilson hadn't fumbled that catch, we might have won the match.

haul
FBI agents hauled away boxes of records.
The police hauled him off to jail in front of his whole family.

lush
We had a lush time on my birthday.
He's so lush.
The lush sound of the orchestra.
The lush taste of fudge ice cream.

take the time
She didn't even take the time to wish me good morning.

half-assed
It's another one of her half-assed ideas for getting rich.

hang up
Thanks, she says, and hangs up.

pass the buck
Don't try to pass the buck - this is your responsibility, not mine.

pace
Kirov stepped back a pace.
He's an aggressive player with plenty of pace.

freeze
She saw someone outside the window and froze.
Freeze (= don't move) or I'll shoot!" screamed the gunman.

eerie
She heard the eerie noise of the wind howling through the trees.
He had the eerie feeling that he had met this stranger before.
~bizarre and frightening 

relish
I always relish a challenge.
I don't relish telling her that her son has been arrested.

belch
The baby let out a loud, satisfied belch.
The exhaust pipe belched out dense black smoke.

wilt
Cut flowers will soon wilt without water.
After only an hour's hiking they were beginning to wilt in the heat.

corsage
All graduates usually wear corsages pinned on the left lapel or left breast of their clothing.

long face
If you go to the party, don't spoil your Uncle's evening with a long face.

drench
I fell in the stream and was drenched.

vestments
All changes can be only towards the wearing of these new vestments. 

pulpit
Many ministers delivered political guidance from their pulpits.

chasuble 
Two years ago in Myanmar, his green chasuble bore the country’s national flower, the bright yellow padauk.