shed
The lawn mower is kept in the shed.

crummy
a crummy old carpet.
Crummy weather.
a crummy job.
a crummy movie.

tweezers
He tried to get the splinter out with tweezers.

wimpy
I'm too wimpy to express my own opinions.
I'm far too wimpy to go rock climbing.

perk
A company car and a mobile phone are some of the perks that come with the job.

allowance 
The perks of the job include a company pension and a generous travel allowance.
I couldn't have managed at college if I hadn't had an allowance from my parents.

gurgle
My stomach gurgled.
Outside of her window the stream gurgled over the rocks.

tug
Tom tugged at his mother's arm.
Feeling a tug at his sleeve, he turned to see Joe beside him.

stoop
The doorway was so low that we had to stoop to go through it.
Something fell out of her coat pocket and she stooped down and picked it up.

ennoble
He has this theory that suffering can ennoble a person's character.

venerate
Robert Burns is Scotland's most venerated poet.
The American writer Mark Twain has been venerated for almost a century.

pedestal 
In the riot, the statues were toppled from their pedestals.
A flower arrangement in a large basket stood on a pedestal in the corner of the room.

exfoliate
No I just got some exfoliating cream in my eyes.

ectoplasm 
Hold on to your ectoplasm, now. Mulan's getting married.

simmer down

slip
She slipped on the ice.
Productivity in the factory has slipped noticeably in the last year.
The dollar slipped against the Japanese yen.

drawers 
Don't run around in your drawers! Put some clothes on!

preemptive 
The Treasury has decided to raise interest rates as a pre-emptive measure against inflation.
The prime minister authorized a pre-emptive air strike against the rebels.

finesse
It was a disappointing performance that lacked finesse.
This mission does not call for force, but finesse.

cranky
She's a member of a group that promotes cranky ideas about food and exercise.
A few years ago, when he started his campaign, he was castigated by many of his colleagues, and looked on as a little cranky.
A lot of cranky talk takes place about management and labour and a lot of people spin out great theories about it.

fraternize
The soldiers were told not to fraternize with any of the local people.

marvel
We paused to marvel at the view.
Just look at that waterfall! Isn't it amazing?" she marvelled.

bust up
They busted up last year.

paddle
Shall we go for a paddle.
Keep paddling on the canoe to the shore.

bandit
Bandits attacked the travelers just outside of town.

wing it
I didn't have time to prepare for the talk, so I just had to wing it.
We have three days left, we can't just wing it.

bugging
He's been bugging me all morning.

scrape
Scrape your boots clean before you come in.
We'll have to scrape the snow off the car before we go out in it.
Emily scraped away the dead leaves to reveal the tiny shoot of a new plant.

dip
Dip the fish in the batter, then drop it into the hot oil.
She dipped her toe into the pool to see how cold it was.

feud
a family feud
a ten-year-old feud between the two countries
You all feuding over nothing, it seems pretty clear to me.

by the book
My lawyer always goes strictly by the book.
This is a private deal - we don't have to do everything by the book.

indepted
We're deeply indebted to you for your help.
For her encouragement and support, I am especially indebted to my wife, Nancy.
Heavily indebted farms are still struggling.

gab
The two of us were always gabbing away.

budge
I've tried persuading her, but she won't budge.
I've tried moving the desk but it won't budge/I can't budge it.

trample
Somebody trampled all over my flowerbeds!
Eight people were trampled to death (= killed) when the stadium collapsed and the crowd rushed out onto the football pitch.

doll

sag
It was a ramshackle building and its roof sagged.
The shelf sagged under the weight of the heavy books.

knuckle 
My knuckles ache.

for its own sake
I believe in education for its own sake, not just to get a good job.

get/lay/put your hands on something
I can never lay my hands on a stapler in this office.

figure of speech
"Break a leg" is a figure of speech, meaning "good luck".

take for granted
George had taken it for granted that they'd get married.

veil
She veiled her face.

loaf
a loaf of bread.

brim
a wide brimmed hat.

rung
I felt as if I were walking the rung if ladder laid flat.

bump
She bumped into his tray, knocking the food onto his lap.

precocity
A precocious child, she went to university at the age of 15.
She recorded her first CD at the precocious age of twelve.