shun
After the trial he was shunned by friends and family alike.
She has shunned publicity since she retired from acting.
~avoid

mausoleum
The cathedral was built in 1517 as a royal mausoleum.

reconnaissance
Aerial reconnaissance of the enemy position showed they were ready to attack.

expedition
an expedition to the jungles of the Orinoco.

lamppost
The warning of public works is usually a little card on a lamppost.

mow
You can't mow the lawn if it's wet.

tray
She was carrying a tray of drinks.

purr
The cat purred as I stroked its fur.
We could hear the sound of a lawnmower purring in the back garden.
A black limousine purred up (= drove up making a quiet, continuous, soft sound) outside the hotel.
I love it when you stroke my back," she purred (= said with pleasure).

makeshift
We pulled into a makeshift parking area.
Thousands of refugees are living in makeshift camps.
Arranging a row of chairs to form a makeshift bed.
~temporary 

adamant
The mayor is adamantly opposed to any tax increase.
I've told her she should stay at home and rest but she's adamant that she's coming.
She was adamant about becoming a dancer.
~uncompromising, stubborn 

squint
The bright sun made them squint.
~peer

tuck someone in
Daddy, if I go to bed now will you tuck me in?
The children are safely tucked up in bed.

regurgitate
Owls regurgitate partly digested food to feed their young.
Many students simply regurgitate what they hear in lectures.
People are just regurgitating what they see on TV.

signify
Nobody really knows what the marks on the ancient stones signify.
The number 30 on a road sign signifies that the speed limit is 30 miles an hour.

peel
Could you peel the carrots?
We peeled the wallpaper off the walls.

wedge
Push a wedge under the door to keep it open while we're carrying the boxes in.
Auntie Ann put a huge wedge of cake on my plate.
a wedge of cheese.

go through
I'm going through my wardrobe and throwing out all the clothes I don't wear any more.
Remember to go through the pockets before you put those trousers in the washing machine.

wobbly
The car had a wobbly wheel.
~unsteady

trivet
a trivet may often contain a receptacle for a candle that can be lit to keep food warm.
We used old books as trivet.

mat
before entering our house please clean the bottom of your shoes on the mat.

coaster
There is another great advantage of these small coasters.

swat
I swatted a mosquito that had landed on my wrist.

knapsack
I take my daybook out if my knapsack.

dangly
Dangly earrings.

scaffolding
Scaffolding has been erected around the tower and repair work will start next week.

sewer
a complicated system of sewers runs under the city.

turban
a black turban.

knot
To tie a knot.

makeover
Honda unveiled the car's high-tech makeover this week.
House of dragon is getting a makeover in tonight episode.
~transformation 

frenemy
Her only friends are a trio of catty frenemies she hasn't seen in months.

excerpt
She read out excerpts from an article in the Times.
~snippet 

thriller
an excerpt from her new thriller will appear in this weekend's magazine.

pendulum
The pendulum in the grandfather clock swung back and forth.
The spaceship's jets were fired periodically to dampen a side-to-side pendulum motion that had developed.

dampen
Rain had dampened the tent so we left it to dry in the afternoon sun.
Nothing you can say will dampen her enthusiasm.
I didn't want to dampen his spirits.

sneaker
The sneaker is black with gold trim and stitching as well as laser print around the toe and heel.

slipper
a comfortable slip-on shoe that is worn indoors.

average person
The average person burns 1,500 to 2,000 calories per day.

tuxedo
At 6:30 p.m., the guests, many in tuxedos and evening gowns, arrived to make an inspection tour of the hotel.

holler
He was hollering something about seeing a snake.
~shout loudly, yell

flame retardant
That test shows that flame-retardant coverings are crucial.

latch
Roof latch.

sloppy
We gave away a goal through sloppy defending.
Another sloppy pass like that might lose them the whole game.
The batter was a bit sloppy so I added some more flour.
She covered his face with sloppy kisses.

decry
They decried human rights abuses.

chalk
He chalked a message on the board.

snoop
She's the sort of person you can imagine snooping about your room when you're not there.
Stop snooping into my life.

binocular
a look through the binoculars confirms that he is.

pendant
a jade-green pendant on a gold chain.

chore
I'll go shopping when I've done my chores (= done the jobs in or around the house).
I find writing reports a real chore (= very boring).

penitentiary 
But how did this affect the lives of individual inmates inside prisons and penitentiaries.