guffaw
Both men guffawed at the remark.
He guffawed with delight when he heard the news.

hearty
a hearty and boisterous character.
~exuberant, cheerful, boisterous 

gallant
He had gained a popular reputation for his gallantry towards women.
I'd like to think that gallantry isn't dead.
The speech praised those who had displayed gallantry in the liberation of their country.
He was awarded a gallantry medal for saving life at sea.

true hearted
a true hearted husband.
~loyal, faithful

expedient
It might be expedient not to pay him until the work is finished.
The company can save money by the simple expedient of cutting investment and hiring.
The management has taken a series of expedient measures to improve the company's financial situation.

maintain
Throughout his prison sentence, Dunn has always maintained his innocence.
He maintains that he has never seen the woman before.

virile
The ads show virile young men playing on the beach.

slip away
He slipped away while we were all sleeping.
Shortly before midnight, he slipped away to meet her.

intestate
Many people die intestate because they thought they were too young to make a will.

tact
He's never had much tact and people don't like his blunt manner.
The editors of this book have shown tact and good sense in their selections.

wrangle
a lengthy wrangle about/over costs
The joint venture ended in a legal wrangle between the two companies.
They had been wrangling with the authorities about/over parking spaces.
The two companies are still wrangling over the details of their proposed collaboration.

sly
She thought that by being sly, she could fool people.
A cat can be a very sly animal.
He drives his mother's car on the sly while she's at work.
They get real sly about it.

litter
About two percent of fast-food packaging ends up as litter.

jocular
She is known for jocularity in her dealings with the press.

infallible
Even the experts are not infallible.
Those tests are infallible.

avarice
Her business empire brought her wealth beyond the dreams of avarice.
~greed

vilify
Participants were asked whether they had experienced discrimination or vilification because of their race or religion.
He has had to suffer public vilification during the past 24 hours.
~disparage, defame, denigrate

sordid
There are lots of really sordid apartments in the city's poorer areas.
What you've done is disgusting and sordid.
a sordid story.
a sordid details.

stalk
He had stalked her for several months before he was arrested.
He was arrested for stalking.
She refused to accept that she was wrong and stalked furiously out of the room.
Cynthia says those flowers have pretty tall stalks.

bulging
He stared with bulging eyes.
She dragged her bulging suitcase up the stairs.

square deal
I reckon we got a square deal on that car.

shenanigans
Like many local governments in the state, the county has a long history of political shenanigans.
More business shenanigans were exposed in the newspapers today.

tranquil
She stared at the tranquil surface of the water.
The hotel is in a tranquil rural setting.
I lay on the dock under a tranquil blue sky.

vent
Please don't shout - there's no need to vent your frustration/anger/rage/spleen on me.
I didn't mean to upset anyone, I just needed to vent.

put off
They can't put off a decision much longer

contort
a spasm of pain contorted his face.
~grimace

ajar
The home help had left the window ajar.

stammer
Wh-when can we g-go?" she stammered.
He dialled 999 and stammered (out) his name and address.

beat someone to it
You'd better get a move on or they'll beat you to it.

awry
Anything that goes awry (= goes wrong) in the office is blamed on Pete.
She rushed in, her face red and sweaty and her hat awry.
There are too many people involved, and something is bound to go awry.