isle
Explore the more remote Caribbean isles.
~small island

pebble
This part of the coast has pebble beaches.

constabulary
But the local constabulary refused to take him into custody.

seaborne
Seaborne trade.

incumbent
The government realized that it was incumbent on them to act.
The incumbent President was defeated.
~in office, obligatory with respect to responsibility 

inflatable 
Commandos fast-roped onto the deck from Wildcat helicopters and scaled the ship’s hull from high-powered inflatable boats.

seized on
The story was seized on by the tabloid press, who printed it under huge headlines.
Immigration issues have been seized on by conservative politicians.
His critics have seized on the scandal to call for his resignation.

cast doubt
New evidence has cast doubt on the guilty verdict.

take hold
The economic recovery is just beginning to take hold now.
~start to have an effect

bustling
This used to be a bustling town but a lot of people have moved away over recent years.

clamber
I clambered into/onto the bus.
They clambered over/up the rocks.
~scramble 

seal off
Two more bombs have been discovered since the police sealed off the area.

cram
The docks were crammed with people trying to board the boats.
Eight children were crammed into the back of the car.
They all crammed into the rudder stock.
~overfill 

acquaintance
An acquaintance had offered to help John on to a ship, saying that once he made it overseas, John could send back money to pay for his transit.

repatriate
Repatriation of refugees is essential to rebuilding the country.
Foreign investors face no limits on repatriation of profits.

charter
private companies charter vessels from ship owners.

scant
He pays scant attention to the needs of his children.
They agreed to share their scant supplies of food.

welt
The ropes caused cuts and welts on the men’s skin.

set in
If you get bitten by a dog, you have to make sure the wound is cleaned well, or an infection could set in.

sped
Soon afterwards, two rescue boats sped from the port to the rudder of the Nave Andromeda.

pull up
a car pulled up outside my house.
~pull over

disembark
Passengers disembarking from arriving planes should proceed to Passport Control.

work out
Investigators needed several months to work out that a fraud had been committed.
We need to work out a seating plan.
~devise

ordeal
The stowaways reeked of sweat and seawater after their ordeal in the rudder stock.
The hostages' ordeal came to an end when soldiers stormed the building.

devout
a devout Buddhist/Christian/churchgoer.
~pious, religious 

bunk
Can I sleep in the top bunk?

deafening 
The music was deafening.

exacerbate
His fear of the water had been exacerbated by the traumatic journey.
This attack will exacerbate the already tense relations between the two communities.
~aggrevate

altercation 
According to witnesses, the altercation between the two men started inside the restaurant.
I had an altercation with the ticket collector.
~quarrel

tense
She was very tense as she waited for the interview.

cordial
Relations between the two leaders are said to be cordial.
~genial, friendly

corroborate
Recent research seems to corroborate his theory.
The witness had corroborated the boy's account of the attack.
~endorse

amiss
I could see by the look on their faces that something was amiss.
There was something amiss about his calculations.
~awry, out of order

drab
She walked through the city centre with its drab, grey buildings and felt depressed.
~colourless

piracy
Piracy is alive and flourishing on the world's commercial sea lanes.

prevail
They complained that corporate interests often prevailed over the needs of the individual.
I am sure that common sense will prevail in the end.
~win

slip in
I thought I'd slip in a few jokes to lighten up the talk.

crumple
He handed me a crumpled bail notice from the police and asked me to explain it.

congregation
The priest asked the congregation to kneel.
Michael goes to his local church every Sunday, and occasionally plays football with members of the congregation, but otherwise he keeps to himself.

bedsit
He lives in a tiny student bedsit.