battering
wife/child battering.
Florida is starting to recover from the battering it endured in recent hurricanes.
Stock markets have taken a battering in the past week.

plung
Systematic attacks that have plunged millions into the cold and dark as winter sets in.
Her car plunged off the cliff.
He plunged into the crowd, smiling and shaking hands.

infantry
The infantry advanced at sunrise.

reel
Our team is reeling from five straight losses.

cordon
They've cordoned off the whole area because of a suspected bomb.
There was a police cordon around the building.

deplore
He said that he deplored all violence.
What is the trait you most deplore in yourself?

in the air
With these elections, it feels like change is in the air.

desolation 
a feeling of utter desolation.
It was difficult to describe the emptiness, the desolation of the area.

clique
Our golf club is run by a very unfriendly clique (of people).

crap
She thinks that most of what’s on television now is crap.
The dog crapped right in the middle of the street.

fume 
I saw her a week after they'd had the argument and she was still fuming.
The whole episode left me fuming at the injustice of it all.

red mist
a red mist descended and he punched the other player in the face.
Jane was beginning to see through a red mist. How dare he?

luggage
We bought some new luggage for our trip.
Never leave your luggage unattended.

perforation
A tea bag is full of tiny perforations.

advent
Life was transformed by the advent of the steam engine.

prolong
We were having such a good time that we decided to prolong our stay by another week.

bionic
a bionic arm/leg.

litter 
About two percent of fast-food packaging ends up as litter.

blast off
The space shuttle blasted off on schedule.

clutter
Sorry about the clutter in the kitchen.
My desk is covered in/full of clutter.
The kids always clutter the hall (up) with school bags and coats and stuff.

rassurance
I felt I couldn't cope with the situation and was in desperate need of some reassurance.
Despite her father's reassurances, she was still frightened of the dark.

guild
There, he had created voluntary guilds to alleviate the artisan's distress due to the introduction of freedom of trade.

resurrect
Almost all Christians believe that Jesus was resurrected from the dead.
Several members of the party have resurrected the idea of constitutional change.
~bring back to life

grounding
Every child needs a good grounding in science and technology.
This course is designed to give drivers a grounding in car maintenance.

passionate
a passionate speech.
The child's mother made a passionate plea for help.
Argentinian are passionate about football.

adhere to something
She adhered to her principles/ideals throughout her life.
They failed to adhere to the terms of the agreement/treaty.

recount
He recounted his adventures since he had left home.
She recounted some of her experiences working as a nurse in a hospital emergency room.

ellightenment 
Can you give me any enlightenment on what happened?
~the state of understanding 

venture
She advised us to look abroad for more lucrative business ventures.
There are many joint ventures between American and Japanese companies.

intuitive
an intuitive approach/judgment
Most people have an intuitive sense of right and wrong.
~based on feeling rather than fact

surpass
The book's success has surpassed everyone's expectations.
The director has really surpassed himself (= done better than he has done before) with this new film.

superior
This is clearly the work of a superior artist.
She was chosen for the job because she was the superior candidate.
For babies, breastfeeding is superior to bottle-feeding.

phase something out
The airlines are phasing out any aircraft that is more than 20 years old.

chop
He was chopping wood in the yard.
Add some fresh parsley, finely chopped.
Chop (up) the onions and carrots roughly.
informal Laura had her hair chopped (= cut) yesterday.

pat
He patted his pockets pretending to look for his cigarette.
I bent down to pat the little puppy.

stroke
Stroke the dog if you want, he won't bite.
She lovingly stroked Chris's face with the tips of her fingers.

solitary
In the distance was a solitary building.
He was a solitary child (= he enjoyed being alone).

pastime
Hockey is Canada’s national pastime.

humane
She felt it was more humane to kill the injured animal quickly than to let it suffer.

peculiar
What a peculiar smell!
It's peculiar that they didn't tell us they were going away.