in perpetuity
Wildlife areas have to be maintained in perpetuity.
Bring glory and acclaim back to Houston in perpetuity.

entirety
I never read the contract in its entirety, just parts of it.
I’ve been telling this story for the entirety of my adult life.

souvenir
I’ll keep this as a souvenir of my trip to New York.

take the time
She didn't even take the time to wish me good morning.
They never took the time to get to know her.

like clockwork
My daughter always calls me every Friday evening, (as) regular as clockwork.
-So far, everything had worked like clockwork.
~regularly, as planned

cut
When am I going to get my cut?
~a share of the money

faux
Faux fur.
a faux-brick wall.

wave away
My objections to the plan were waved aside.

brag
She's always bragging about how much money she earns.
They bragged that their team had never been beaten.
~boast

commission
She received a commission to paint the governor’s portrait.
The newspaper commissioned a series of articles on the fashion industry.

get a foot in the door
He took a job as a secretary to get his foot in the door.
Making contacts can help you get a foot in the door when it comes to getting a job.

yarn
He knew how to spin a good yarn (= tell a good story).
Rukmeni's a great storyteller, so she'll probably spin them a yarn about some prince or god.

horn tooting
Not to toot my own horn, but I already knew all that.

glad-handing
They had been taking every free minute to glad-hand loyal supporters.

tout
The Congressman has been touting these ideas for some time.
He is being widely touted as the next leader of the party.
A local car dealership was touting its services/wares on the radio.

callous
She was callously indifferent to the suffering of those she made jobless.
He callously uses the people around him.

tamper
Don’t tamper with the boiler.
I could see immediately that the lock had been tampered with.
Tampering with pipelines could result in ruptures or fires.

immaterial
It’s immaterial whether the trial is in San Diego or Los Angeles or anyplace else.
What if the transfer had been a mere coincidence, and my prank had been immaterial?

erroneous
an erroneous belief.

puff up
The report puffs him up until he sounds like the chairman.
The media think they have to find exciting stories and puff them up.
I had been lying to just about every friend and colleague I had ever met, puffing myself up with some fantasy built on the shaky foundations of an erroneous transfer rumour in 2012.

eat away at something 
It ate away at me just a little bit, the more I thought about it.

poison the well
They acted with the intent to poison the well and get him to quit.

be of somebody's own making
Some of the troubles facing the company are clearly of its own making.

exceedingly
He was smart, handsome, and exceedingly rich.
~extremely

idiocy
The idiocies of war.
The idiocy of the whole plan.

flimsy
When I asked him why he was late, he gave me some flimsy excuse about having car trouble.

decent
We get good benefits, and the pay is decent.
It costs $100 to buy a decent sleeping bag.

long haul
The business will not recover quickly; this is the beginning of a long haul.
It's been a long haul flight.
You need to prepare for the long haul.

buggy
I watched golf buggies full of balls along the pitch.

arid
After several arid years, the company has started to become successful.

cul-de-sac
The first six months of the investigation were a frustrating cul-de-sac for police, tips and leads going nowhere.

break in
We will have to break in three new staff members.
The boss did not believe in breaking his team in gently.

meddle
My sister's always meddling in other people's affairs.
People shouldn't meddle with things they don't understand.

duly
He knew he had been wrong, and duly apologized.
She asked for his autograph and he duly obliged by signing her program.
~as expected

snap up
She was snapped up by a large law firm.
The fall in property prices means that there are a lot of bargains waiting to be snapped up.
The club duly snapped him up.

clicking
The new daytime soap opera has yet to show signs that it's clicking with the television audience.

chasm
There is still a vast economic chasm between developed and developing countries.
The little bridge over that deep chasm looked very unsafe.

bemon
Researchers at universities are always bemoaning their lack of funds.
So, too, was the language, as López bemoaned to the Honduran press on a visit home in December 2013.

flashy
Flashy clothes.
a flashy car.

all the while
There I was thinking you were hard at work and you were upstairs in bed all the while!

right away
I need someone to help me right away.

bit part
Little did he know he had just played a bit part in a high-octane political drama.

prolific
He was probably the most prolific songwriter of his generation.
Rabbits and other rodents are prolific (= have lots of babies).
a prolific YouTube livestreamer.

vouch
Patricia has checked the reports and can vouch for the accuracy of the information.

catch out
A lot of people were caught out by the sudden change in the weather.
-The examiner will try to catch you out, so stay calm and think carefully before you speak.

breezily
She breezily asked her ex if he was seeing anyone now.
He was chatting breezily with some local officials.

reassure
I was nervous on my first day at college, but I was reassured to see some friendly faces.
He reassured me (that) my check would arrive soon.

transpire
No one is willing to predict what may transpire at the peace conference.
-It transpired that Alexander López is now playing in Costa Rica, and he’s a big deal there.
It may yet transpire that members of Congress knew more than they are admitting at the moment.
As it later transpired, she had known him in grade school.

preposterously
It's just another of her preposterously complicated plans.
In the cab to the preposterously named George Bush Intercontinental Airport.

rattle off something
She rattled off the names of the people who were coming to the party.
I rattled off the story of how I’d got here, and my plans for Costa Rica, to a genial Texan retiree who was surprised to learn that the city had a soccer team at all.

ambivalent
I felt very ambivalent about leaving home.
He has fairly ambivalent feelings toward his father.
an ambivalent attitude to exercise.

travelouge
Peter Jackson's latest book "Africa" is part travelogue, part memoir.