manslaughter
She was sentenced to five years imprisonment for manslaughter.

vile
He's in a vile temper today.
This vile policy of ethnic cleansing must be stopped.
This cheese smells vile.

string
What do you think of the recent string of political scandals?
He had a string of top-20 hits during the 80s.

stumble over
When the poet stumbled over a line in the middle of a poem, someone in the audience corrected him.
He tried asking her on a date, but he was so nervous that he kept stumbling over his words.
-People were stumbling over each other to get their pictures taken with the famous actor.
-I stumbled over a box someone had set down in the hallway.

excruciating 
an excruciating headache.
-He explained the procedure in excruciating detail.

pile
They've got a great big Victorian pile somewhere out in the country.

chalk off
He should have chalked off Messi’s extra-time goal because two Argentina substitutes appeared to enter the pitch before the ball went into the net.

officiate
Lambert was a football referee for three decades and officiated in ten postseason games.
Marciniak’s comments came after a petition, asking the final to be replayed due to officiating errors,
-a priest officiated at the wedding.

hooked on
We were afraid she was getting hooked on painkillers, so we changed the medication.
During the Olympics, we all got hooked on ice dancing.


We wanted to be like Chris Morris, fooling celebrities, journalists, and politicians into absurd situations of our making.

satire
The play is a satire on corporate culture.
Her play was a biting satire on life in the 80s.

ring up someone
She rang me up to say she couldn't come.

eve
Mrs Clayton was speaking to Arab journalists in Paris on the eve of her visit to Egypt.
Christmas/New Year's Eve.

run up dept
She stayed two weeks at the hotel and ran up a bill she couldn't pay.

stupendous
Despite his stupendous wealth, he has no interest in money.
He ran up stupendous debts through his extravagant lifestyle.

banquet
Medieval banquets are held in the castle once a month.
It was the organization's annual black-tie awards banquet at a fancy New York City hotel.

expel
The new government has expelled all foreign diplomats.
My brother was expelled from school for bad behaviour.

dabble
I don’t paint much, I just dabble.
He first dabbled in politics when he was at law school.
She dabbled in drugs in college.

dupe
The girls were duped by drug smugglers into carrying heroin for them.

warranted
For a severe cough that lasts more than three weeks, a chest X-ray may be warranted to rule out pneumonia.

sprinkling
The audience were mainly women with a sprinkling (= a small number) of earnest-looking men.
figurative Looking young for his 40 years, he has just a sprinkling (= a small number) of grey hairs at the temples.

maternity
she is not a woman with an interest in maternity.
a maternity hospital.

dispensary 
Like in 1872, the planting area was divided into districts, each with a district hospital and one or more outdoor dispensaries.
The regional cardiology dispensary was damaged.

ascribe
To what do you ascribe your phenomenal success?
After years of research, scholars have finally ascribed this anonymous play to Christopher Marlowe.

tip someone off
Somebody must have tipped the burglars off that the house would be empty.
The robber was caught when someone tipped off the police.

give out
we laughed until our lungs gave out.
The batteries are likely to give out soon.
He was old and his heart just gave out.

reprisal
The attack was in reprisal for the kidnapping of their leaders.
Employees didn’t speak out about the company’s pollution for fear of reprisal.
~retaliation, avenge

dumb
Are they brave or just dumb?
What a dumb idea!

no-hoper
He's a real no-hoper - he'll never achieve anything.

grift
Lilly urges her son to quit the grift, saying he literally does not have the stomach for it. 
~small scale swindle

blank canvas
You have a chance, you have a blank canvas here. You get to reinvent, you get to do anything you want with this.
The city's future is a blank canvas.
for our next grift, we wanted a blank canvas, which we found in their young midfielder in the number 10 shirt: Alexander López.

take to something
She was so depressed she took to drink.
She’s taken to walking along the beach after work.
-The two dogs took to each other immediately and started to play.
She's taken to basketball like a duck to water (= she likes it and is good at it).

stardom
And it was that short-lived role that launched the 35-year-old actor to greater stardom. 
From childhood, Britney Spears seemed destined for stardom.

trial
We will trial the new drug in several hospitals.
He had been invited for trials at Napoli, Malaga and Tottenham Hotspur.
They're doing clinical trials on a new drug.
They've employed her for a six-month trial.

buff
First you apply the wax to the floor, let it dry, and then buff it.
-a movie buff.
~polish

at various points
At various points I pretended to be a club physio, a friend of the physio, an agent, and a local freelance journalist.

fateful
The fateful day of President Kennedy's assassination.
He made the fateful decision to send in the troops.
In 1971, President Richard Nixon made a fateful decision to install tape recorders in the White House.

inflate
They inflated their part in the rescue every time they told the story.
Taking the time to further inflate his stats.

beaming
The club’s site celebrated this new arrival with a picture of López, beaming, holding an orange shirt with “ALEX – 10” on the back.
a beaming smile.