vocation
Most teachers regard their profession as a vocation, not just a job.
To work in medicine, you should have a vocation for it.

indigestion
You'll give yourself indigestion if you swallow your dinner so quickly.

wholesome
wholesome food.
good, wholesome family entertainment.

slip
Productivity in the factory has slipped noticeably in the last year.
The dollar slipped against the Japanese yen.
She slipped on the ice.

cacophony
As we entered the farmyard, we were met with a cacophony of animal sounds.

din
The teacher had to yell to be heard over the din.

craft
Craft workers.
The craft of bookbinding.

obtuse
The answer's obvious - or are you being deliberately obtuse.
~slow or unwilling to understand 

foyer
I'll see you downstairs in the foyer in half an hour.
~lobby 

contender
Now aged 42, he is no longer considered a serious contender for the title.

brace
The side wall of the old house was braced with a wooden support.
The passengers were told to brace themselves (= to press their bodies hard against something or hold them very stiff) for a crash landing.
She told me she had some bad news for me and I braced myself for a shock.

forsake
Do not forsake me!
He decided to forsake politics for journalism.

lightly
Don't take this match lightly.

glamour
Who can resist the glamour of Hollywood?
My mother's glamour will never end.

glean
From what I was able to glean, the news isn’t good.

indoctrination
Religious indoctrination.

messiah
An ordinary priest, he was hailed by thousands as the new messiah.

exempt
Candidates with a qualification in chemistry have exemption from this course.
Organizations may qualify for exemption from income tax if they operate exclusively as charities.
Small businesses have been exempted from the tax increase.

lame
His horse went lame.
I found the programme pretty lame and not very informative.

esteemed
It is my honor to introduce our esteemed senator.

odds
If you drive a car all your life, the odds are that you'll have an accident at some point.
There are heavy odds against people succeeding in such a bad economic climate.
What are the odds on him being (= do you think he will be) re-elected?
The overall odds of winning a lottery prize are 1 in 13.

doom and gloom
The papers are filled with stories of gloom and doom.
She was full of gloom and doom.

mercenary 
He had planned to seize power with the aid of a group of mercenaries.

taboo
In this society there is a taboo on/against any sort of public display of affection.

atrocity
They are on trial for committing atrocities against the civilian population.
These people are guilty of acts of appalling atrocity.

appall
I was appalled at/by the lack of staff in the hospital.
The state of the kitchen appalled her.

stress
During his speech, he laid particular stress on the freedom of the press.
I'd just like to stress the importance of neatness and politeness in this job.

ruinous
It is ruinously expensive for local e-commerce companies to accept credit cards online.
Ten ruinous years of war.
You can strengthen sanctions to make Russia feel how ruinous its aggression truly is.

stark
He came running back in stark terror.
They get stark naked.
It was a stark room with a bed and chair as the only furniture.

parcel
The parcel was wrapped in plain brown paper.
~package

take action
Staff will take action over pay trailing behind inflation.

draft
He was drafted in to help fix the engine.
The home office has drafted in officials from other departments as well as hundreds of members of the armed forces as a contingency workforce to try to mitigate the effects of the strikes.

contingency 
You must be able to deal with all possible contingencies.
Have you made any contingency plans?

postie
When people see the little red van coming up their drive, they know and have confidence that it is their local postie.

skid
Tony's car skidded on some ice and hit a tree.
~vehicle slide