fastidious
He is very fastidious about how a suitcase should be packed.
They were too fastidious to eat in a fast-food restaurant.

comrade 
Many of his comrades were killed in the battle.
I know my opinion is shared by many of my comrades in the Labour movement.

manky
a manky tissue.
Manky old carpets.

trolley
a shopping trolley
The hospital is so overcrowded that some patients are being treated on trolleys in the corridors.
Why will supermarket trolleys never move in the direction that you push them in?

faint hearted
He deals with subjects more fainthearted filmmakers would stay away from.

imperious
an imperious manner/voice
She sent them away with an imperious wave of the hand.
~arrogant

sort out
Sort out any clothes you want to throw away and give them to me.

aptitude
My son has no/little aptitude for sport.
We will take your personal aptitudes and abilities into account.

demented
She was nearly demented with worry when her son didn't come home.

homily
She delivered her homily about the need for patience.

take someone part
Her sister was the one person who had always taken her part.

overhaul
The restaurant has overhauled its menu, cutting portions and eliminating items with lots of calories.
The government has recently overhauled the healthcare system.
I got the engine overhauled.

would-be
a would-be actress who dresses up as Marilyn Monroe.
~aspiring

arbitrary
The company has been the subject of an arbitrary take-over.
a country under arbitrary government.
-Did you have a reason for choosing your destination or was it arbitrary?

high-handed
a high-handed decision.
~arbitrary

devolution 
The majority of people in the province are in favour of devolution.
Additional problems derive from the recent devolution of federal programs to the state and local levels.

signpost
The signpost said "London 18 miles.
many universal credit claimants voicing frustration that they were not being signposted to adequate training.

self-evidently 
Any growth in unemployment is self-evidently a matter of extreme seriousness.
He was denying what was self-evidently true.

directive
The boss issued a directive about not using the fax machine.
a federal directive forbids fund-raising in government offices.
~official instruction

nemesis
injury, consistently his nemesis, struck him down during the match.
The tax increases proved to be the president's political nemesis.

auspicious
They won their first match of the season 5–1 which was an auspicious start/beginning.
Our first meeting was not auspicious - we had a huge argument.

rive
It was a nation riven by hatred.
Such conclusions have begun a debate that has increasingly riven archaeologists.

upsurge
an upsurge of/in violence in the district has been linked to increased unemployment.

swath
The sheriff’s department polices a wide swath of the county.
~strip

ransack
The burglars ransacked the house but found nothing valuable.
I ransacked the cupboard for my ski boots.

accede to something 
He graciously acceded to our request.
It is doubtful whether the government will ever accede to the nationalists' demands for independence.

clout
The Queen may have privilege but she has no real political clout.

proponent
He is one of the leading proponents of capital punishment.
~advocate

watershed
The year 1969 was a watershed in her life - she changed her career and remarried.

flatline
Her eyes open and she begins to flatline.
-Have widescreen TV prices finally flatlined?
-Her acting career has flatlined.

disparage
He disparages his business competitors, saying they are all a bunch of amateurs compared to him.
The actor's work for charity has recently been disparaged in the press as an attempt to get publicity.

flattering 
a flattering photograph.
That suit is flattering on you.
-The article began with some flattering words about us.

the ball is in your court
The ball is firmly in the court of the EC Commission.

slippage
The slippage of the book's publication date.
-Every slippage on the stock exchange brought fear and wild accusations.

rigorous
The Manhattan district attorney’s office had a pretty rigorous training program.
Rigorous testing.

vigorous
a vigorous debate.
There has been vigorous opposition to the proposals for a new road.
He takes plenty of vigorous exercises.

zippy
a zippy car.
a zippy performance.
~energetic or fast

fraught with
The negotiations have been fraught with difficulties/problems right from the start.

scalper
a scalper offered me a $20 ticket for the concert for $90.

neophyte
This computer course is for neophytes.
~newbie

legal tender
The euro became legal tender in 12 European countries on Jan. 1, 2002.

rally
The nurse said my mother had rallied after a poor night.
The team played badly in the first half of the game but rallied in the second.
The pound rallied against the dollar in trading today.
~improvement

interest
Interest charges on an overdraft are usually quite high.
-You should put the money in a savings account where it will earn interest.