hardcore
Hardcore party members.
a hardcore gamer.

whack off
~jerk off

set someone off
Every time I think about it, it sets me off laughing.
She's finally stopped crying - don't set her off again.

get someone wrong
Don’t get me wrong – I like your haircut, I’m just surprised you cut it so short.

epiphany
the only epiphany I had was realizing that life just goes on.

inept
~clumsy

bug
He's been bitten by the sailing bug.
He's been bugging me all morning.

kind of
It was kind of strange to see him again.
~rather

mole
A mole inside the Department had leaked secret proposals to the press.
Our mole with the Russians tells things a little differently.

wince
She gave a wince as the nurse put the needle in.
It's impossible not to feel a wince of empathy for someone who gets a kick in the face.

whine
Leon's dog was sitting by the door whining, so I thought I'd better take it for a walk.
Alice, if you keep whining I won't take you - do you understand?

knock/throw someone for a loop
He knocked me for a loop when he said he was quitting his job.

treat
The sewage is treated with chemicals before being dumped.

sewage
Some cities in the world do not have proper facilities for the disposal of sewage.
Raw/untreated sewage is being pumped into the sea, where it pollutes our beaches.

in no time
Now that we’re on the highway, we’ll be there in no time.

be into something
I’m really into folk music.

mug
He was mugged in broad daylight.
-He's such a mug, he believes everything she tells him.

lame duck
This is regarded by many as a lame-duck initiative that has failed to deliver its promises.
A lot of time and effort goes into supporting employees who are essentially lame ducks.

be all about
Yes, I'd like one! I'm all about getting free stuff! 
I never liked them as a group, but I'm all about their solo projects.

dismissal
unfair/wrongful dismissal.
His homophobic comments led to his dismissal.

line up
Do you have anything exciting lined up for the weekend?
I've lined up a meeting with them for tomorrow morning.

upbringing
Is it right to say all the crimes he committed were simply the result of his upbringing?

black eye
He had a fight at school and came home with a black eye.

be framed
Being framed as a drug dealer was the worst possible thing.

screw over
I would have won the game but I got screwed over when I landed on Mayfair.

credible
He can also talk credibly about the details.
It's not credible.

autobiography
The duke first recounted the confrontation in his autobiography Spare.

shattering
It was a shattering schedule - seven meetings in two days.
Losing the family business was a shattering blow.

bigoted
She's so bigoted that she refuses to accept anyone who doesn't think like her.

impasse
The dispute had reached an impasse, as neither side would compromise.

detractor
His detractors claim that his fierce temper makes him unsuitable for leadership.

protracted
Protracted negotiations.
a protracted argument/discussion.
~prolonged

stalemate
Tomorrow's meeting between the two leaders is expected to break a diplomatic stalemate that has lasted for ten years.
Despite long discussions, the workers and the management remain locked in a stalemate.
~impasse

concession
He stated firmly that no concessions will be made to the terrorists.
The former president's concession came even before all the votes had been counted.
~concede

sway
Her speech failed to sway her colleagues into supporting the plan.
Recent developments have swayed the balance of power in the region.

cast
All the votes in the election have now been cast and the counting has begun.

proceeding
Millions of people watched the proceedings on television.
The Chairperson opened the proceedings with a short speech.

inconclusive
The evidence is inconclusive.
The medical tests were inconclusive and will need to be repeated.

adjourn
The meeting was adjourned until Tuesday.
Should we adjourn for lunch?

glimmer
This month's sales figures offer a glimmer of hope for the depressed economy.
She's never shown a glimmer of interest in classical music.
The first glimmer of light has appeared in the peace talks.

holdout
Their holdout continued as they refused to sign the contract.
It's time to shame holdouts into signing the treaty.

notch
Her band notched another Grammy Award last night.
The detractors reportedly notched some important wins in their negotiations.

relent
Her parents eventually relented and let her go to the party.
The security guard relented and let them through.
~soften, yield

gridlock
A car breaking down at rush hour could cause gridlock across half the city.

deliberation
After much deliberation, she decided to accept their offer.
After five days of deliberations, the jury decided on a verdict.

bickering
I'm tired of their constant bickering.
The group finally elected a leader after several days of bickering.
Spending three hours in a car with two bickering kids is no fun.
~squabble

backbiting
a lot of backbiting goes on in our office.

gruelling 
Junior doctors often have to work a gruelling 100-hour week.
He eventually won the match after five gruelling sets.

woo
The party has been trying to woo the voters with promises of electoral reform.
The airline has been offering discounted tickets to woo passengers away from their competitors.

quell
The police were called in to quell the riot.
-He’s been unable to quell his wife’s suspicions.

bloc
They would like to turn Europe and North America into a single trading bloc.
The European Union is a powerful trading bloc.
the former Communist bloc countries.

gavel
The judge banged her gavel and said, "Quiet, please!"

get someone to do
I’ll have to get John to do this report.   I won’t be able to finish it in time.

ascension 
His ascension to the presidency.