half the battle
He never gives in, and that's half the battle.

bottom line
How will the rise in interest rates affect our bottom line?
The bottom line is that we need another ten thousand dollars to complete the project.

collateral
She put up her house as collateral for a loan.

whopping
There was a whopping increase in the rent.
a whopping 35 percent raise.
a whopping lie.

seasoned
a seasoned trader.

irrespective 
Child benefit is paid irrespective of income level.
The legislation must be applied irrespective of someone's ethnic origins.

sturdy
Sturdy hiking boots.
a sturdy table.
~strong

prevailing
The bank said it will buy the shares at the prevailing market price.
prevailing economic/market conditions.
The chief executive said the poor figures resulted from the prevailing economic conditions.
~existing

wretch
Who trampled on my flowers? I bet it was those two little wretches who live next door.
-The poor wretches had no chance to survive.

odious
an odious crime.
an odious little man.

save face
We said he left "to pursue other interests" to let him save face, but actually, we fired him.

something in the wind
There is a merger in the wind, I’m sure 

we’d hear about it.

maiden
The first hydrogen-powered aeroplane will make its maiden flight this year.
His maiden appearance on TV.

reprimand
The head of the department was severely reprimanded for failing to report computer thefts.
His boss gave him a severe reprimand for being late.
~rebuke

insolence 
She tried just to ignore their insolence.
She was sacked for insolence.

demonstration
He gave us a demonstration of the new software in use.
-There has been little demonstration of support for the proposal so far.
a demonstration of friendship.

turn down
His novel was turned down by publisher after publisher.
~reject

fitting room
In addition, each fitting room has to be equipped with a computer monitor.

pillage
They have survived a thousand years of floods, droughts, wars, pillage, and destruction.
~plunder

chivalry
History has shown that men are less inclined to show their traditional chivalry in such circumstances.

clientele
The nightclub has a very fashionable clientele.

gather 
Harry loves his new job, I gather.
From what I can gather, they're old-school friends.

bump into someone
We bumped into Amy when we were in town last week.
Us, bumping into each other wasn't a coincidence.

to hold out a hand
I'm Nancy Drew, she said, holding out her hand.
Max held out his cup for a refill.

precedence
His desire for power soon took precedence over any other consideration.
Precedence must be given to the injured in the evacuation plans.

born into privilege
You can be born into privilege and still want to change the world.

lead by example 

patron
We are the patron of the red cross.
Princess is a well-known patron of several charities.

sort
It's a sort of pale orange color.
I was sort of hoping to leave early today.
-What sort of shoes will I need?
Many sorts of bacteria are resistant to penicillin.
They sell souvenirs, postcards, that sort of thing.

wee
You were just a wee lad the last time I saw you.
Would you care for a wee bit more to eat?

snigger
They spent half the time sniggering at the clothes people were wearing.
What are you two sniggering at/about?

retribution
Employees asked not to be named, saying they feared retribution.
~vengeance 

keep in line
That threat kept a lot of people in line.
~under control

feud
a ten-year-old feud between the two countries.

see to something
These letters need to be mailed. I'll see to them later.
Mrs. Chapman asked for some help with the orders - could you see to it?
Please see to it that no one comes in without identification.

demise
The demise of the company was sudden and unexpected.
My visits to his house continued until his sad demise at 86.

testament
The detail of her wildlife paintings is a testament to (= proof of) her powers of observation.

stretcher
She was carried off the track on a stretcher.

lordship
It is a great pleasure to welcome your lordship this evening.

fracas
He was injured in a Saturday-night fracas outside a disco.
The senator has joined the fracas over the proposed changes.
~scuffle

afoot
There are plans afoot to launch a new radio station.
Big changes are afoot at Lake Utah.
Let them know early when things are afoot -- and if their wee ones are welcome. 

incessant
The region endured weeks of incessant rain.
~never stopping

dissident
Political dissidents.

interrogate
Thousands of dissidents have been interrogated or imprisoned in recent weeks.

by all account
By all accounts, San Francisco is a city that's easy to fall in love with.
His books, from all accounts, are extremely entertaining.

entice
The ads entice the customer into buying things they don't really want.
People are being enticed away from the profession by higher salaries elsewhere.
The smell of coffee in the doorway enticed people to enter the store.
~lure, tempt

guest of honor
The president was the guest of honor at the dinner.

glide
She came gliding gracefully into the ballroom in a long, flowing gown.
I love my new pen - it just glides over the paper.

granted
Granted that the story's true, there's not a lot you can do about it.
Granted, many horror movies don't make sense until the ending, but they at least provide a few scares along the way.

take something for granted
One of the problems with relationships is that after a while you just take each other for granted.
I do so much for him and he just takes me for granted.
-I suppose I just took it for granted that they were married.
You just take it for granted that people over a certain age can drive.
Oh, father, your wishes were only granted because of my age.

blockade
an air and sea blockade.
The Soviet blockade of Berlin was lifted in May 1949.
There is still some hope that the economic blockade will work and make military intervention unnecessary.

pronto
I'll send those off pronto before I forget.
~immediately

shoot oneself in the foot
I think you might be shooting yourself in the foot if you don't take his offer.

something in the order
I think congratulations are in order for the new graduates in the room!
~to be a suitable thing on a particular occasion

irrevocable
an irrevocable decision.
I hereby declare my irrevocable determination to renounce the throne for my bloodline.

renounce
Her ex-husband renounced his claim to the family house.
Gandhi renounced the use of violence.
*it can be ownership or belief or support

flagrant
a flagrant misuse of privilege.
a flagrant breach of trust.
a flagrant disregard for the law.

abdication
The city denied that their decision represented any abdication of responsibility.
It is difficult to imagine a more flagrant abdication of duty.
His abdication speech was broadcast on the radio.

backfire
Her plans to make him jealous backfired on her when he started dating her best friend.

sober
You need to sober up before you go. 
I tried to sober her up. 
I have to sober myself up.

deign
If she deigns to reply to my letter, I'll be extremely surprised.
He didn't deign to receive my call.

dismiss
I think he'd dismissed me as an idiot within five minutes of meeting me.
Let's not just dismiss the idea before we've even thought about it.
Just dismiss those thoughts from your mind - they're crazy and not worth thinking about.

poppycock
He dismissed the allegations as poppycock.
~nonsense

butler
Back on the ship, relax with the help of in-suite butler service and a luxury onboard spa. 

make something up
I made up an excuse about having to take care of the kids.
My dad was always really good at making up stories.

overcome
They were overcome by fumes from the fire and had to be carried out of their houses.
Overcome by emotion, she found herself unable to speak for a few minutes.

mayhem
With 20 kids running around and only two adults to supervise, it was complete mayhem.
The storm created complete havoc in the park.
~havoc

grubby
He was wearing some old shorts and a grubby T-shirt.
Don't wipe your grubby hands on my clean towel!
~grimy

onerous
The onerous task of finding a peaceful solution.
She found the duties of motherhood onerous.
~laborious 

precipitate
An invasion would certainly precipitate a political crisis.
Fear of losing her job precipitated (= suddenly forced) her into action.

Epicentre
The epicentre of epidemy was the capital itself.

Sustainable
That sort of extreme diet is not sustainable over a long period.
Solutions put in place now must be sustainable.

Pindown 
I've tried asking Stephanie, but she's proving difficult to pin down to a particular date.