cutlery
Single-use plastic cutlery and plates are to be banned in England.

in a bid to
Plastic cutlery, plates, and trays are to be banned in England in a bid to reduce pollution.
~in an attempt 

landfill
90 percent of American rubbish is dumped in landfill sites.

head on
They may prefer to face the future head-on, rather than live in denial.
We should have sat down and addressed the issues head-on.

cotton bud
Use a cotton bud to clean your ear.

atoll
The test took place on Enewetak, an atoll in the Pacific Ocean.

epochal
an epochal shift in the global oil market is underway.
an epochal moment in British culture.

overwhelming
She felt an overwhelming desire to tell someone about what had happened.
-an overwhelming majority has voted in favour of the proposal.
-Government troops have overwhelmed the rebels and seized control of the capital.
The boxer relied on his power, pace, and pressure to overwhelm opponents.

soot
It can be dangerous to let too much soot accumulate inside a chimney.

keep on track
Please make sure everyone in your entire department keeps on track to meet their sales quotas for the year.

colloquial
One was written in an informal colloquial style; the other, in a formal, almost businesslike style. 

setback
There has been a temporary setback in our plans.

outfight 
He challenged a hundred men and outfought every one.
~outmatch

outdo
The men tried to outdo each other in their generosity.

It's harder than anyone imagines to outrun destiny.
~escape from

decay
The body had begun to decay.
Hardwood is more resistant to decay than softwood.

undertone
I thought her speech had slightly sinister undertones.
It was a comedy act with an undertone of cruelty.

particular 
He's very particular about the kitchen - everything has to be perfectly clean and in its place.
She's very particular about what she eats.

barrage
His forces launched an artillery barrage on the city.

ordinance
The ordinance would require apartment managers to verify that renters are US citizens.
a city ordinance forbids the parking of cars in this area.

heist
a $2 million jewelry heist.

snooze
The children play beach games while the adults snooze in the sun.
~nap, sleep

wind down
The city intends to wind the program down in the spring.
Unfortunately, the party was just winding down as we got there.
-When he goes on vacation, it takes him the first couple of days just to wind down.

binge
I tend to binge on chocolate when I'm watching TV.

hit the hay/sack
I have a busy day tomorrow, so I think I'll hit the sack.

secretion
The excessive secretion of gastric juices in the gut causes ulcers.
Toxic secretions.
During such a time the body triggers a secretion of melatonin.

obliterate
The missile strike was devastating - the target was totally obliterated.
All of a sudden the view was obliterated by the fog.

regimen
After his heart attack, the doctor put him on a strict regimen.