scrounger
He thinks that people who receive welfare benefits are scroungers.

flaccid
The penis is usually in a flaccid state.

mar
Sadly, the text is marred by careless errors.
It was a really lovely day, marred only by a little argument in the car on the way home.
~spoil

superfluous
Our new mayor plans to eliminate superfluous programs.
Much of the school day is wasted on superfluous activities.
The report was marred by a mass of superfluous detail.
~surplus

on steroid
He described the new edifices as "architecture on steroids". 
People flocked to West Berlin in search of an alternative life in a liberal society. It was like Amsterdam on steroids. 

edifice
The town hall is the only edifice surviving from the 15th century.

afford
Her seat afforded her an uninterrupted view of the stage.
The hut afforded little protection from the elements.

nursery
Do you think the state should provide free nursery education?

remedy
Money will be given to remedy the poor funding of nurseries.

bid
Paris is bidding to host the next Olympics.

decry
They decried human rights abuses.
~publicly denounce

call out
If he did anything wrong, I'd be the first to call him out on it.
Many plumbers charge double for an emergency call-out over the weekend.
The government called the army out to deal with violent disorder on the streets.

standoff
The battle of wills between teacher and student was a standoff.
She locked herself in the house, but after a brief standoff, police convinced her to come out.
~impasse, stalemate

poised
My pencil was poised over the page, ready to take down her words.
~still but ready to move

reap
To reap the harvest. 
The company is poised to reap the benefits of this investment.

grunt
You don't have to do the grunt work manually.
He hauled himself over the wall, grunting with the effort.
~unskilled job

disorder
The police feared that the crowd were becoming disorderly and so they moved in with horses.

evict
Tenants who fall behind in their rent risk being evicted.
He was evicted from the bar for drunken and disorderly behaviour.
~expel

resurgence
The creation of independent states has led to a resurgence of nationalism.
Resurgence in demand.

adulterated
Saffron is very expensive and is often adulterated with other plants.
There were complaints that the beer had been adulterated with water.

alibi
He has a cast-iron (= very strong) alibi - he was in the hospital the week of the murder.
After eight years in power, the government can no longer use the previous government's policy as an alibi for its own failure.

in the air
With these elections, it feels like change is in the air.
The sun was shining and spring was in the air.
Love is in the air.

last straw
She's always been rude to me, but it was the last straw when she started insulting my mother.

run a bath/shower
I could hear her running a bath upstairs.

get one's shit together 
One of these days I'll get my shit together.

lost cause
I used to try to get him to do some exercise but then decided he was a lost cause.
-It rained all weekend, so painting the house was a lost cause.

afford
I can't afford to pay attention to any controversy.
We can't afford to make any mistakes at this stage in the project.

complacent
We can't afford to become complacent about any of our products.
We must not become complacent over new inventing.

shove
She shoved the books into her briefcase.
He shoved the knives into his heart.

uproot
The war has uprooted nearly two-thirds of the country's population.
He had been with the team for six years and didn't wish to uproot his family to play in a different city.

decorate
He is the most decorated Brazilian player.
They were decorated for their part in the rescue.

puncture
My bike has had two punctures in the last three weeks.

jam
a traffic jam.
It's a real jam inside - it took me ten minutes to get to the bar.

clampdown
Following the military coup, there has been a clampdown on press reporting in the capital.
In the wake of the attacks, a temporary security clampdown at border crossings has created major traffic jams.
~crackdown

irritant
The report is bound to add a new irritant to international relations.
~ something that causes trouble

tacit
The decision to settle out of court was seen as a tacit admission of guilt.
There was a tacit understanding, that we didn't want to see each other again.
~unspoken

rein in/back
We tried to rein in our excitement and curiosity.
Reports today suggest consumers are already reining back on spending.
Some of the worst Wall Street abuses have been reined in.

pose
Nuclear weapons pose a threat to everyone.
The mountain terrain poses particular problems for civil engineers.
~cause

otherwise
The police believe he is the thief, but all the evidence suggests otherwise.
Fungi seem harmless, but many species know otherwise.

hallucinate
Mental disorders, drug use, and hypnosis can all cause people to hallucinate.

puppeteer
And not only must the puppeteer 'dance' with his marionette, but he must transpose himself into its center of gravity. 

marionette

burrow
Rats had burrowed into the bank of the river.
I burrowed through the clothes in the drawer looking for a clean pair of socks.

drop off
We dropped our luggage off at the hotel and went sightseeing.
We will drop you off.

swing at someone
They were arguing, and then I saw him swing at Brian.