professed
She is a professed monarchist.
His professed love of women seems a little odd when you consider how he treats them.

take someone to task
He took some military experts to task for their optimistic predictions.
~rebuke, reprimand

unhinged
I sometimes think that your mother is a little unhinged.

diehard
a diehard fan of metal.

condescending
I hate the way he's so condescending to his staff.
His condescending attitude offended his teammates.

hommage
On this occasion, we pay homage to him for his achievements.
~respect

harrowing 
a harrowing story.
For many women, the harrowing prospect of giving evidence in a rape case can be too much to bear.
~ agonizing, excruciating 

intervening
It was a long time since my last visit to Berlin, and it had changed dramatically in the intervening years.

mindful
Mindful of the poor road conditions, she reduced her speed to 30 mph.

conform
At our school, you were required to conform, and there was no place for originality.
The contract requires that managers conform to high standards of personal conduct.
Wood-burning stoves must conform to the fire code.

stop by somewhere
I was passing your house, so I thought I'd stop by for a chat.

on the same line
My sister works in publishing, and I’m hoping to do something along the same lines.

whip out
He suddenly whipped out his gun and pointed it at his doctor.

bump
Her bicycle hit a bump in the road and threw her off.
Enrique had a nasty bump on his head from when he fell down.

flick
Emily flicked some ash off her sleeve.

virility
You know in some cultures having a third nipple is a sign of virility.
a country's economic virility.

perchance
Do you know her, perchance?

hook up
When did you two first hook up?
-He hooked up with the other members of the band in Amsterdam.

gravel
a gravel path.

spooky
It was a spooky coincidence.
~eerie

degrading
Porno movies are degrading to women.
The prisoners were subjected to cruel and degrading treatment.
~disrespectful, humiliating

flattering
The lighting in the scene is kind of unflattering.
a flattering photograph.
That suit is very flattering.
He's always making flattering remarks.

live a lie
I have just reached a point where I can't live a lie anymore.

wiped
I'm just wiped.

pounce
The cat sat in the tree ready to pounce on the ducks below.
The police were waiting to pounce when he arrived at the airport.

darn
That darn World Cup means so much to you, I know.
It's over, and there's not a darned thing we can do about it.
~damn

put something up
The meeting has been put off for a week.
I can't put off going to the dentist any longer.
Maybe you should just put it off.

catch someone off guard
The news caught her completely off guard – she didn't know what to say.
The strength of the storm caught many residents by surprise.

wind down
The party was winding down.
Wind down with a good book.

lax 
Survivors in Turkey are blaming country's lax building standards.
lax security arrangements at the airport.
~not strict, heedless

tremor
a disorder that causes tremors and muscle rigidity.
~tremble, shaking

bum
Could I bum a couple of bucks from somebody?
Could I bum a cigarette off you?
The coach is a bum.
-He gave us bum directions, but we eventually found the place.