screening
Employment screening does not always extend to temporary staff.
Regular screenings for cervical cancer.
no, see, I'm trying this screening thing.

get pinned for something
He was at the wrong place at the wrong time and ended up getting pinned for the murder. 
If you get caught, you'll get pinned for obstruction of justice as well as perjury.

steep
They are having to face very steep taxes.
We enjoyed our meal at the restaurant, but the check was a little steep.
The membership fees at the golf club are pretty steep.

invariably
The train is invariably late.

run into
Graham ran into someone he used to know at school the other day.
~bump into

for all one knows
For all I know, he left last night.
She may have already accepted another job, for all we know.

stand up
Whoever stood you up is a jerk.

apiece
They got just 35 shares apiece.

skit
it's like a skit.

switch
When did the writer make the switch from fiction to non-fiction?
The switch to new accounting software greatly improved the organization's bookkeeping.

dorky
we didn't have to wear those dorky glasses. 
~awkward and not fashionable

enthuse
He was enthused over a wonderful restaurant he'd been to.
She's the best leader this country has ever known!" he enthused.
Could you be less enthused?

gesture
It's a good gesture but it feels like a charity.
The government donated $500,000 as a gesture of goodwill.
Eating boiled potatoes instead of french fries was his only gesture toward healthy eating.

bumpy
We drove along bumpy dirt roads for hours.
It might be a bumpy flight because there's a lot of air turbulence ahead.
~rough and not smooth

fool around
We spent the afternoon fooling around on the beach.
Don't fool around with matches.
She'd been fooling around with someone at work.

a bust
Our attempt to start a new company was a complete bust. 

kickback
Bankhead got a contract to supply computers to the department in exchange for a kickback.

might as well
Shall we walk? we might as well, I don't want to wait for another hour here.

immodest
Showing an immodest amount of leg.
He makes these immodest statements of his own brilliance.

whiff
He leaned toward me and I caught/got a whiff of garlic.
During the first few months of pregnancy, the slightest whiff of food cooking made my stomach turn.

missed/skipped a beat
The player hasn't missed a beat this year, scoring three touchdowns in his first three games.
-He lost the arguments and, without skipping a beat, went on to implement the very policies he had just lobbied against.

gig
The band is going to Atlanta to play a gig at the Fox Theatre.
-She's well qualified, but I think it's unlikely she will get the gig.
But this is my gig.

sloppy
Spelling mistakes always look sloppy in a formal letter.
Another sloppy pass like that might lose them the whole game.
~without care and efforts
-At home, I tend to wear big sloppy sweaters and jeans.
-Her grandchildren nearly smothered her with sloppy kisses.

stroller
The car seat is easily fit onto the stroller.

start/set/get the ball rolling
To get the ball rolling, the government was asked to contribute a million dollars to the fund.
I decided to set the ball rolling and got up to dance.

come off
There was some sort of property deal that didn't come off.
I tried telling a few jokes but they didn't come off.

jam
Remember the time, I jammed a pencil into your hand?
He jammed the boxes into the back of the car.

freckle
The brothers were in their early teens, and both had reddish hair and freckles.

broom
She hit me in the back with a broom.

spoke
a bicycle spoke.
Do you remember the time I stroke that broom in your bike's spoke?

read up on something 
I don't know much about Malawi – I'll go home and read up on it.

enumerate
He enumerated the benefits of the insurance plan.

mastery
Her mastery of the situation.
-Her mastery of the violin.
Louis Armstrong’s mastery of the trumpet is legendary.

cornerstone
In most countries, the family unit is still the cornerstone of society.

hardwire
Humans are hardwired to love fattening foods.

rapport
she was able to establish a good rapport with the children.
~affinity