I'm telling you
I'm telling you, he's the best player in the American League.
We’ve been waiting a long time for this, I’ll tell you.

cramp
Several runners needed treatment for cramps and exhaustion.
I've got a cramp in my foot.

silver lining
When things look black, there's always a silver lining.
The injury had a silver lining: It enabled Blake to spend his father's last weeks with him. 

anally retentive
Don't you think Adrian's a little anally retentive? Look how obsessively orderly everything is in his garage.

control freak
She may seem like a control freak, but it's because she cares. 

spare one's feeling
He admitted that he hadn't told me the whole story because he wanted to spare my feelings.
We pretended to like his artwork in order to spare his feelings.

dump
If he's so awful, why don't you just dump him?
-He came in with four shopping bags and dumped them on the table.
Several old cars had been dumped near the beach.
Toxic chemicals continue to be dumped into the river.

pathetic
Are you telling me you're frightened to speak to her? Don't be so pathetic!
a pathetic excuse.
Bernie’s hitting was pretty pathetic!
oh, I'm pathetic.

bossy
Henry, who is extremely bossy, wants to be in charge.

cuff
He buttoned his cuffs.
a black shirt with white cuffs.
He wears a polo shirt and cuffs on his pants.

inseam
OK, now we'll do your inseam.

grow out of
Lucas says he wants to join the army when he turns 18, but I hope he'll grow out of the idea.
I know his gonna grow out of these shoes but I had to buy them.

sneaker
The woman wore a black sneaker on her left foot.

muffin
blueberry muffins.

you bet
"Are you coming to the party?" "You bet!"

appeal
Sex appeal.
Spielberg's movies have a wide appeal.
This used to be a marvellous hotel but it has lost its appeal in recent years.
Of course, the packaging does appeal to grownups and kids.

manipulative
Even as a child she was manipulative and knew how to get her own way.
What a manipulative bitch.

sprig
Garnish the dish with sprigs of parsley.

twig
We collected dry twigs to start the fire.
~kind of sprig but without leaves on it

rift
The marriage caused a rift between the brothers and they didn't speak to each other for ten years.

lavish something on someone
She lavishes money on her grandchildren.
The committee lavished praise on the project.

vent
The meeting will be an opportunity for everyone to give vent to their feelings.
Please don't shout - there's no need to vent your frustration/anger/rage/spleen on me.
I didn't mean to upset anyone, I just needed to vent.

provision
You do not need to provision a database server for each service.

incensed
The townspeople are incensed at the decision to close the train station.
He was incensed by the suggestion that he'd leaked details of a confidential conversation.

malevolence
Her eyes flashed pure malevolence.

repay
She repaid her mother the loan.
He had to sell his car to repay the bank loan.

defer
My bank has agreed to defer the repayments on my loan.
Can we defer making a decision until next week?
~postpone

make believe 
Let's make believe (that) we're pirates.
Let the children make believe they're film stars.
We can't close our eyes and make believe that climate change doesn't exist.
~imagine

contraction 
The contraction of economic output.
LET’S with an apostrophe is a contraction of two words: LET and US.

evoke
The sight evoked pleasant memories of his childhood.
~bring to mind