conjure
In an instant, the magician had conjured (up) a dove from his hat.

impersonal
The congressman gave a short, impersonal speech and left soon afterwards.
Money is so impersonal, we should give them some of our cookies.
She has a very cold and impersonal manner.
Hospitals always seem so impersonal - rows of identical beds in dull grey rooms.
~without human warmth

run out on someone
She ran out on him two months ago, leaving him to take care of their two children.

meadow
There was a path through the meadow to the village.

cave
No, I will not cave.
After protests from customers, the company caved and removed the item from its stores.
I knew he'd cave if they offered him more money.

cringy
It was a bit cringy when he got her name wrong.
cringy old-school photos.

squishy
The whole idea of what constitutes a disability is squishy.
The definition of spam is squishy - a message that you delete I may think is a worthwhile offer.
~not clear or exact
-a squishy banana
~soft

hold onto something
Hold onto the rope and don't let go.
~hold something firm

circuit 
They first met each other on the tennis circuit.
He was a familiar figure on the lecture circuit.

brush off
The committee chairman brushed her off when she tried to raise the issue.
Ehrlich brushes off suggestions that he's spending taxpayer dollars for campaign ads.
~refuse to consider something serious

renegade
A band of renegades had captured the prince and were holding him to ransom.
Islam thinks of renegades as an apostate.

ardent
~passionate 

secessionist 
an ardent secessionist.

unswerving 
an unswerving loyalty.
Unswerving allegiance.

expenditure 
Cuts in public expenditure.

spawn
The new economic freedom has spawned hundreds of new small businesses.
Her death spawned countless films and books.

redeem
A poor game was redeemed in the second half by a superb performance from Anthony Edwards.
He was an hour late, but he redeemed himself in her eyes by giving her a huge bunch of flowers.
~do to seem less bad
-She managed to save enough money to redeem her jewellery from the pawn shop.
~retrieve, take back

shackle
The country is shackled by its own debts.
-The prisoner was led away in shackles.

bloodied
The body was discovered wearing a bloodied white T-shirt.
He ended the fight with his face bloodied and battered.
~covered in blood

fan out
The police fanned out over the west side of the park.

scarper
The police are coming! We'd better scarper.

get smart
Don't get smart and do as I told you.
They must have got smart and scarpered.

abed
She grew accustomed to going out for long lonely walks after the children were abed.
~in bed

despise
Despise not the labour which humbles the heart.
She despised him for the way he treated her sister.
He despised himself for being such a coward.

hunger for something
I hunger for your touch.
I've never hungered after power.
~to want something very much

elbow
He elbowed his way to the front of the crowd.
They elbowed the onlookers aside.

glade
We met in a glade of flowers.

chide
She chided him for his bad manners.

dilute
Dilute the juice (with water) before you drink it.
-These measures are designed to dilute public fears about the product's safety.

visage
draftsmen from across the numerous have been summoned to capture his visage.
~face

brow
She wrinkled her brow as she thought.
and you would brow that much power upon the brow of a being?

cusp
On the cusp of adulthood.
We are on the cusp of crafting a new kind of power.

confer
I need some time to confer with my lawyer.
~exchange ideas to reach a decision

scour
The police are scouring the area for the missing child.
I scoured the mall for a blue and white shirt, but I couldn't find one anywhere.
~search hard to find something

progenitor
The progenitor of rock 'n'roll was rhythm and blues.
Marx was the progenitor of communism.
Tobacco rivals arsenic as a progenitor of fatal cancer. 

attuned
A good nurse has to be attuned to the needs of his or her patients.
Politicians must be highly attuned to these dangers.
You will understand the accent better as your ears become more attuned.