oar
She dipped her oars into the water and pulled.
~paddle

brood
I wish she wouldn't sit brooding in her room all day.
~constantly think about something that makes you sad

blabber
He's always blabbering on about computers.
~prate, chatter

barrack
Every time the minister got up to speak, he was barracked mercilessly.
-The barracks are already full.

rope someone in
We roped in a couple of spectators at the last minute to complete the team.
~persuade

sod
What poor sod will you rope into that?
~person
-She sleeps beneath the sod.
~soil

forage
We'll forage the hill again, gather the hunters.
The children had been living on the streets, foraging for scraps.
The pigs foraged in the woods for acorns.

mast
a television/radio mast.

unsettle
Children tend to get unsettled if you continually change their routines.
~nervous and unable to relax

put someone off
I really don't want to go out with Helen and Greg tonight - can't we put them off?
He keeps asking me out, and I keep putting him off.

put something off
The meeting has been put off for a week.

mush
The movie was just mush.
~so romantic
-My mind turned into mush.
~can't think clearly

chasm
There is still a vast economic chasm between developed and developing countries.
-They leaned over the rails and peered down into the dizzying chasm below.

token
As a token of our gratitude for all that you have done, we would like you to accept this small gift.
It doesn't have to be a big present - it's just a token.

dexterity
He caught the ball with great dexterity.
Young children lack the dexterity to brush their teeth effectively.
-He answered the reporters' questions with all the dexterity of a politician.

charging
The bull lowered its horns and charged at spectators.
The violence began when the police charged at a crowd of demonstrators.
I've been charging around all day, and I'm exhausted.
He came charging up the stairs to tell me the good news.
~move forward violently and hurridly

cadet
It's a basic term familiar to soldiers but new and bewildering to the younger cadets. 

decline
He's sick, and few know the full extent of his decline.
His interest in the project declined after his wife died.
The party's popularity has declined in the opinion polls.
Formal The land declines sharply away from the house.

restrained
I was expecting him to be furious, but he was very restrained.
a more restrained policy on mortgage lending
The tone of his poetry is restrained and unemotional.
My father was always restrained in his beliefs.
~unemotional and controlled

strident
Strident criticism.
a strident voice.
~forceful and rough

proclaim
All the countries have proclaimed their loyalty to the alliance.
It was the famous speech in which he proclaimed that socialism was dead.

single-handedly
Michael single-handedly transformed the team.
My father single-handedly sailed to Valinor.

deed
It seems to me that a lot of evil deeds are done in the name of religion.
She's always helping people and doing good deeds.
~intentional acts

forebear
Our people believe that when a new king is crowned, the voices of all his forebears flow into him.
~ancestor

tonic
Seeing his grandchildren was the perfect tonic for him.

intuition
Often there's no clear evidence one way or the other, and you just have to base your judgment on intuition.
I can't explain how I knew - I just had an intuition that you'd been involved in an accident.
~infer based on your feeling rather than facts

forsake
He decided to forsake politics for journalism.
Forsake any claims to these lands.
I thought she might forsake ballet in favour of Irish dancing.

lay something bare
The sad tale of failure was laid bare.
Your queen has laid bare her intent.

debunk
The magazine that debunks claims of the paranormal.
The old claim that it’s wrong to end a sentence with a preposition has been utterly debunked.

call on
They're calling on all men and boys over the age of 14 to join the army.
I call on you to fight with me.
I now call on everyone to raise a glass to the happy couple.
She called on Americans to be more tolerant of each other.
-She would have to call on all her strength if she was to survive the next few months.
-She went to the hospital to call on a sick friend.

frailty
Though ill for most of her life, physical frailty never stopped her from working.
Most of the characters in the novel exhibit those common human frailties - ignorance and greed.
~weakness

deliverance
He is not your deliverance.
We pray for deliverance from our sins.
The families hoped for the safe deliverance of their husbands, fathers, and brothers.

waylay
A man on his way to deposit $12,000 in a bank was waylaid by two men who snatched his bag.
I meant to leave earlier but I was waylaid on the way out of a meeting by my manager.

hand over
You've handed me over a guild crest.
We were ordered to hand over our passports.

outmanoeuvre
In the negotiations, he outmanoeuvred his rivals by offering a higher price.
~outwit, outsmart

folly
She said that the idea was folly.
It would be folly for the country to become involved in the war.
~stupid

invigoration
We need to put more invigoration and enthusiasm into the organization.
To what do you credit this new invigoration?

procure
She's managed somehow to procure his phone number.
He'd procured us seats in the front row.
From where did you procure this table?
~get something by efforts

sacrilege
Muslims consider it sacrilege to wear shoes inside a mosque.
Please forgive our sacrilege.

apocryphal
Uzarsouf is an apocryphal story.

obscure
an obscure island in the Pacific.
Official policy has changed, for reasons that remain obscure.
an obscure legend.
~ not known to many people

ensnare
Finally, the lightning ensnared the tree for its own.
Spiders ensnare flies and other insects in their webs.
~take in one control

vestige
These old buildings are the last vestiges of a colonial past.
There is now no vestige of hope that the missing children will be found alive.
~trace

blight
His arrival cast a blight on the wedding day.
A broken leg blighted her chances of winning the championship.
-The blight upon this tree is a manifestation of plague.

meager
The food at my grandmother's house was meager and barely edible.

esteem
There has been a drop in public esteem for teachers.
Because of their achievements they were held in high esteem.
Her work is highly esteemed by all her colleagues.
~respect for

mere
Hope is never mere Erlond.
It cost a mere 20 dollars.

crow
“I told you so,” my little brother crowed.
My father keep crowing to everyone his future son in law is a war hero.

squawk
As the fox came into the yard, the chickens began squawking in alarm.
After you squawking it every night, I fear i'ill never forget them.

in good conscious
I can't in good conscience support this nominee.
~by all standards

go up
last night two factories went up in flames.

cask
a cask of wine must have gone up.

ascertain
The police have so far been unable to ascertain the cause of the explosion.
Have you ascertained whether she's coming or not?
~discover

duress
He claimed that he signed the confession under duress.
I have tested it under every duress.