yank
She yanked open the cupboard door, and everything fell out.
~pull forcefully

legion
The difficulties surrounding the court case are legion.
~numerous
-a legion of elves went to war.

meddling
These orcs were meddling with the powers of the unseen world.
High-ranking officials said there was no political meddling in the case.
The ruling frees the technology industry to innovate and improve products without government meddling.

elude
The gold medal continues to elude her.
They had minor breakthroughs, but real success eluded them.

vanquish
Napoleon was vanquished at the battle of Waterloo in 1815.
The vanquished army surrendered their weapons.

manner
She has a somewhat cold, unfriendly manner.
Very little is known about the new candidate - what manner of man is he?

grazing
Where has she been grazing?

townsfolk
The townspeople have embraced the summer music festival.
She addressed a meeting of townspeople.

repel
She was repelled by his ugliness.
Her arrogance repels many people.
Is there something repellent about me?
-It is not true that eating garlic repels mosquitoes.
The defenders repelled the attack without losing any men.

hideous
a hideously expensive restaurant.
Am I hideously unattractive?
-They've just built some hideous new apartment blocks on the waterfront.
She wears the most hideous color combinations you could ever imagine.

lifeline
The government is going to throw a lifeline to the troubled motor industry.
They won what amounted to an economic lifeline that allowed Britain to pay for food, fuel, and other essentials.

tipping point
The earth has already passed the tipping point in terms of global warming.
Many developed countries are getting close to a tipping point in their attitude to the environment.

figure
We figured (that) you'd want to rest after your trip.
How long do cats live? Figuring you don't throw them under a bus or something.
-I'm still figuring my taxes.
-I find him really odd - I can't figure him out at all.
Can you figure out the answer to question 5?

get someone to do something
I’ll have to get John to do this report.   I won’t be able to finish it in time.
I can’t get the children to sleep at bedtime.  They never seem to be tired!
He got you to beg to sleep with him?

entail
Such a large investment inevitably entails some risk.
Repairing the roof will entail spending a lot of money.
What does this job entail? The ad was not clear.

pilgrim
Thousands of Muslim pilgrims travelled to Mecca. 
headline
The band's headlining appearance at the festival could be their last.
Nirvana headlined the 1992 Reading Festival.

ditzy
She played the role of a ditzy blonde.
Leon's dog was sitting by the door whining, so I thought I'd better take it for a walk.
A spoiled child typically whines for something and gets it.

chubby
The perfect baby has, we are told, chubby little fingers and toes, chubby legs, and chubby cheeks.

appalling
Prisoners were kept in the most appalling conditions.
Appalling weather.

acquainted
I am not personally acquainted with the gentleman in question.
Do you know Daphne?" "No, I'm afraid we're not acquainted.

crackling
We could hear the crackling of a fire.

sneak up on somebody
Overton sneaked up behind Brown and knocked the ball out of bounds.

quick stick
Fucking sort it out quick sticks you cunt.

bode
This does not bode well.
These recently published figures bode ill/do not bode well for the company's future.

away with you
Away with you!’ shouted Rory. ‘I don’t need your advice!

squish
Don't sit on that bag - you'll squish the sandwiches.
Squish the ripe bananas with a potato masher.

riven
It was a community/nation/family riven by hatred.
The party was riven apart by disagreements over race and immigration, he said. 
-The wood was riven with deep cracks.
The earth is riven by fissures.

wrought
The new album contains some carefully wrought new songs and a number of familiar hits.
Her poems are well-wrought and intensely personal.

reverie
He was lost in reverie until he suddenly heard someone behind him.
~daydream

glint
The glint of a knife.
A mischievous glint in his eye.

petty
Prisoners complain that they are subjected to too many petty rules and restrictions.
-Don't be so petty!

reminiscence
The novel contains endless reminiscences about the author's youth.

remiss
I've been remiss in not visiting sooner.
It was remiss of me to forget to give you the message.

oversight
They claimed it was simply an oversight.
It was an oversight for which I'm here to humbly ask for forgiveness.

sizable
Emanuel already has a sizable amount of money saved up for college.

sapling
He says it's not just the poor cutting down saplings to use as fuel to stay warm. 

intrude
I didn't realize your husband was here, Dr Jones - I hope I'm not intruding.
Newspaper editors are being urged not to intrude into the grief of the families of missing servicemen.

grueling
Runners are taking part in a grueling 100-mile race in the mountains above Los Angeles.
He eventually won the match after five grueling sets.

grieve
I grieve for those you lost.
He is still grieving for his wife.
-It grieves me to see all this food going to waste.

tetchy
Be careful what you say to Anna - she's been a little tetchy lately.
~cranky

preverse
Jack was being perverse and refusing to agree with anything we said.
She took a perverse pleasure in hearing that her sister was getting divorced.
~strange and not usual

shudder
The sight of so much blood made him shudder.
She shuddered at the thought of kissing him.

antagonize
It's a very delicate situation and I've no wish to antagonize him.
The company doesn’t want to antagonize one of its biggest oil suppliers.

furnace
People who work with furnaces in a steel factory need to wear protective clothing.

toil
Well, after a day's toil in the office I like to relax a little.
Lindi has achieved her comfortable life only after years of hard toil.

skiff
Sailors aboard the vessel returned fire, forcing the attackers to flee in a small skiff. 