loosely
The film is loosely based on the novel by Kundera.
~not exactly 

bulletin
The museum publishes a monthly bulletin about coming events.

pore
Sweat passes through the pores and cools the body down.
a porous device.

pore over
He pored over the letter searching for clues about the writer.
She spends her evenings poring over textbooks.

sole
My sole objective is to make the information more widely available.
a cut on the sole of her foot.

seep
Water began to seep through the soles of his boots.
~ooze

obituary
Other volunteers gossip and cut obituaries from local newspapers.

hearsay
The court cannot accept evidence based on hearsay and rumor.
Everything they had told him would have been ruled out as hearsay.

rule out 
She has refused to rule out the possibility of singing again.
Further testing had ruled out any infection.

headstone
Three marble headstones rest at odd angles among the boxelder trees.

filter in
The sunlight filtering into my bedroom is what eventually woke me up.
There's no set start time for the event people just filter in all day long.
~ happen gradually 

low-lying
People living in low-lying areas were evacuated because of the floods.

sigh
She gave an audible sigh of relief.

hitch
Due to a slight technical hitch the concert will be starting half an hour late.
The ceremony went off without a hitch.

heave
She heaved the sofa back into place.
We both heaved a sigh of relief when she left.
He cleared a space, heaving boxes out of the way.
As the wind increased, the deck of the ship began to heave beneath his feet.

curator
the curator/custodian of drawings at the National Gallery

dismissive 
He's so dismissive of anybody else's suggestions.
~shows that something is not worth considering 

in relief
Coins have pictures on them in relief.

slop
Careful, you've just slopped coffee all over the carpet!
Water slopped out of the bucket as he carried it up the stairs.
~spill

settler
I eat apples from trees planted by settlers and groundnuts cultivated by Native Americans.

laze
she spent the day at home, reading the papers and generally lazing around.

plough
You shouldn't walk over ploughed fields.
I’ve wondered about those who ploughed, planted trees and set fires.

brigade
He was a civil war soldier who belonged to a famous brigade.

reproductive
The female reproductive system.

advocate
voters supported candidates who advocated an Assembly.
Suffragist is a person who advocating that the right to vote be extended to more people, especially to women.
he was an untiring advocate of economic reform.

deed
It seems to me that a lot of evil deeds are done in the name of religion.
She's always helping people and doing good deeds.
According to the deed, she owns the land from here to the river.

genealogical 
Genealogical research? she prompts.

haemorrhage 
He had a brain haemorrhage.
Serious haemorrhage may occur at any time throughout pregnancy.

glaring
a glaring injustice.
He kept talking during the concert, and people were glaring at him.
This screen gives off a lot of glare.

county
He instructed the county clerk to copy his notes without omission.

abbreviate 
Or maybe the clerk felt he couldn’t abbreviate the doctor’s notes in this case.
I decided to abbreviate my stay in Cambridge.

confinement 
He remained with his wife during her confinement.

foreboding 
with a sense of foreboding she read the note.
~apprehension 

debilitate
an economy debilitated by years of civil war.
~drain, enfeeble 

childbearing 
How does childbearing affect women's incomes?

casually 
He casually tossed the gift on the table.
I chatted to him casually, as if I didn't care.
I only work casually, so I have time to do other things.
She was dressed casually in shorts and a T-shirt.

impart
The teachers imparted a great deal of knowledge to their pupils.
To impart the bad news.

unsparing 
The documentary went through all the graphic details of the operation in unsparing detail.

induce
They induced her to take the job by promising editorial freedom.

impression
There were impressions around her ankles made by the tops of her socks.

lanky
He shifted his lanky body uncomfortably in the cramped airplane seat.
~ungracefully slender 

cramp
a cramped room/house
We have six desks in this room, so we're a little cramped (for space).
I have a very cramped schedule.

tract
The house is surrounded by vast tracts of woodland.
My portrait patterned after photos of settlers who lived on tracts around mine and whose descendants are my neighbours.

respite
We worked for hours without respite.

encampment
The refugee encampments will provide some respite from the suffering.
Many people are living in encampments around the city with no electricity or running water.

chore
I'll go shopping when I've done my chores (= done the jobs in or around the house).

savvy
Experienced women were savvy about controlling their reproduction. 
Business savvy.
She's very intelligent, but hasn't got much savvy.
~practical and experimental knowledge 

aliment
The doctor diagnosed a common stomach ailment.

literate 
Their parents were uneducated and barely literate.
a literate person.

sketchy
The information they had was sketchy.
~containing few detail